853	Agreement	That seems likely, it's surely vaccine passes in action if you assume the purpose of them is to prevent health services becoming overwhelmed by unvaccinated patients.
837	Agreement	So you assume virus severity has no effects on virus effects?
281	Disagreement	1) Why do you assume someone will be exposed to more spike proteins from the vaccine as opposed to an actual viral infection?    2) the inflammation that leads to myocarditis is the result of the body's immune response to an antigen.  I am almost certain you are more likely to see a harsher immune response from the actual virus as opposed to the vaccine.
576	Agreement	1. evolution isn't "intentional." 2. omicron did not evolve from delta.  it is unclear if it is less severe per infection than what it evolved from. 3. we have seen variants that are probably more severe than what they evolved form (i.e. delta). 4. selection pressure can be fairly complicated and can select for more severity. For example, what if evolving for a higher replication and viral load makes it both spread more and cause more severe cases?
209	Agreement	The sensitivity analysis using a cut-off of 4 months also found that those vaccinated within 4 months prior to enrollment (n=39) had a lower viral load than those who were unvaccinated, **but not those vaccinated ≥4 months prior to enrollment (n=58)**, Supplemental Figure 2.
610	Agreement	Also in the press release:  >Antibody and T-Cell Responses After Heterologous Boosting Regimen Greater than After Homologous Regimen Against Omicron Variant  >An analysis of 65 individuals who received primary vaccination with two doses of an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine (BNT162b2), followed by a homologous booster shot of BNT162b2 (n=24) or a heterologous booster with the Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine (n=41) after at least six months, found both regimens increased humoral and cellular responses against Omicron.  >**Antibody responses against Omicron were boosted by both the Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine and the BNT162b2 vaccine, with the Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine increasing neutralizing antibody titers by 41-fold at four weeks post-boost. The BNT162b2 vaccine was found to increase antibody titers to a higher level at week two post-boost, before declining to represent a 17-fold increase at week four post-boost.** The progressive increase in antibodies the weeks following a vaccination of a Johnson & Johnson booster is similar to that seen following the first vaccine. The rapid immune response followed by waning of the antibody response after the BNT162b2 booster is also similar to that seen following the two-dose priming regimen.  >**The Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine boosted median Omicron-reactive CD8+ T-cells by 5.5-fold, and Omicron-reactive CD4+ T-cells by 3.1-fold, while the homologous (BNT162b2) regimen boosted both Omicron-reactive CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells by 1.4-fold.**  I believe this is an early update to this earlier preprint: https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.12.02.21267198v1  Kind of interesting that J&J boosted so much better for nAb. You might expect the better T cell response, but that increase vs pfizer for nAb is quite marked. It will be interesting to see if and when the NIH and lancet booster study get updated for Omicron and how it compares.
933	Agreement	Why are unvaccinated less likely to be tested?
726	Agreement	I’m not sure I’m buying it still: Even the earlier in human series, the VoC specific boosters had *worse* response to wild type and increased variant-specific  responses, indicating that they weren’t just dumping out massive amounts of of the imprinted antibodies, but rather developing a separate response. I’ll hold off until the Pfizer numbers come out showing the naive protocol.
48	Agreement	At this point imo the only way to compare severity is to look at the death rate of unvaccinated people with confirmed Omicron and try to account for approximate rates of prior infection.  Everything else has too many variables to reliably control for.
986	Disagreement	nb: the data on the 3rd dose is even less certain. The authors are really clear on this in the text of the paper.
338	Agreement	>The cell model that we used in this study is a carcinoma cell line, with active DNA replication which differs from non-dividing somatic cells. It has also been shown that Huh7 cells display significant different gene and protein expression including upregulated proteins involved in RNA metabolism [56].   Huge caveat.  >Furthermore, a recent study showed that SARS-CoV-2 RNA can be reverse-transcribed and integrated into the genome of human cells.  given just how much junk DNA seems of viral origin, do we know if this is exceptional or all viruses probably do this ?  Like, has anyone tried looking if the other human coronaviruses do it?  What about other vaccines, like for the flu ?
582	Agreement	79% to 60% is not that impressive. Although, a lot of “long-covid” symptoms should really be diagnosed months down the line and not 6 weeks for proper assessment. It is not meaningless either, I just had hopes it would be higher.  Edit: Fixed based on reply's feedback
156	Neutral	One thing I will end up with after this pandemic is a way better knowledge of immunity and viruses, mostly from this sub, so thanks again to everyone for contributing.
693	Agreement	I get that it’s probably not worth immunizing for Omicron over the ancestral strain, but I wonder if it’s worth exposing the immune system to a wider variety of variants through multivalent vaccines. Could that lead to the body becoming more likely to produce universal, “common denominator” antibodies?
863	Agreement	The examples continue and are quite stark.  In the [Norway Omicron case study](https://www.reddit.com/r/COVID19/comments/rhsodb/outbreak_caused_by_the_sarscov2_omicron_variant/), 99% of those with Omicron were symptomatic, while 65% of those uninfected were also symptomatic.  In this [Swiss study on long covid in kids](https://www.reddit.com/r/COVID19/comments/obm0wy/longterm_symptoms_after_sarscov2_infection_in/), 9% of those with covid had symptoms after 4 weeks.  Among those without covid, 10% had symptoms after 4 weeks.
791	Agreement	Not when mRNA vaccine costs 10x more. World is more than developed countries.    Also, inactivated vaccines works great in kids.    Coronavac for kids aged 5 to 11 year had 76% protection against symptomatic cases and 90% for hospitalization. Similar protection with Pfizer (was 83% against symptomatic cases). Data from Chile. With Delta.   And coronavac maybe could have worse numbers than this one. Because is not a recombinant vaccine...
573	Agreement	>Results   >   >Among 52238 employees, 4718 (9%) were previously infected, and 36922 (71%) were vaccinated by the study’s end. Cumulative incidence of COVID-19 was substantially higher throughout for those previously uninfected who remained unvaccinated than for all other groups, lower for the vaccinated than unvaccinated, and lower for those previously infected than those not. Incidence of COVID-19 increased dramatically in all groups after the Omicron variant emerged. In multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression, both prior COVID-19 and vaccination were independently associated with significantly lower risk of COVID-19. Among previously infected subjects, a lower risk of COVID-19 overall was not demonstrated, but vaccination was associated with a significantly lower risk of symptomatic COVID-19 in both the pre-Omicron (HR 0.60, 95% CI 0.40–0.90) and Omicron (HR 0.36, 95% CI 0.23–0.57) phases.   >   >Conclusions   >   >Both previous infection and vaccination provide substantial protection against COVID-19. Vaccination of previously infected individuals does not provide additional protection against COVID-19 for several months, but after that provides significant protection at least against symptomatic COVID-19.  Seems like vaccine and previous infection are similarly protective, both much better than the immunologically naive. Vaccination post-infection further helps to reduce risk of infection.
242	Agreement	Vaccinated people had less restrictions on them than the vaccinated. I don't think it would be possible to control for NPIs in studies like this.
993	Disagreement	That's not what it says at all. In fact, it explicitly says that even with Pfizer, young men are twice as likely to get myocarditis from vaccination than from being infected, and with Moderna that spikes much higher.
789	Agreement	Not saying I agree, but maybe both are necessary but not individually sufficient conditions for myocarditis.
981	Disagreement	I’ve got a question/concern about this. For the mRNA vaccines, a big point of concern with some has been the introduction of those proteins spikes into the body, which they see as potentially harmful (the same people often don’t seem as concerned about the billions of spikes that are attached to live viruses during an infection, but let’s put that aside for a moment).  A big part of the rebuttal to that concern was that while having the spikes in the lungs could potentially not be a great idea, that’s precisely why the injection is in the arm muscle: to keep them as far away from not only the lungs but even the bloodstream as possible.  But if this is inhaled, isn’t there a good chance that at least some of those adenoviruses are going to wind up in the lungs and produce spikes there?
499	Disagreement	Well one shot max per year would be nice. Near-complete protection against serious disease. Some protection against infection. Is it really too much to ask?
108	Disagreement	I would say that’s the opposite of the conclusion most would draw.
768	Agreement	Just to be clear for the folks at home. When they say "negative vaccine effectiveness" what does that mean exactly? Does it mean that the vaccinated fair worse against the control group (unvaccinated) in this case?
840	Agreement	Some clarification is needed in the first paragraph. The author states "Patients can sometimes develop GBS after having a recent respiratory illness or digestive tract infection, and in rare cases, after receiving certain vaccines." This statement is misleading. The author paraphrased a section from their reference listed as 1. Mayo Clinic. Guillain-Barre syndrome.   From the source:  > The exact cause of Guillain-Barre syndrome isn't known. Guillain-Barre syndrome may occur after infection with the COVID-19 virus. It's also a rare reaction in those who receive the **Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine**.  The implication of stating that GBS can result from "certain vaccines" is unfounded and contradicted by their own source. Mayo Clinic specifies in the Causes section of their webpage that the J&J Covid-19 vaccine is implicated in rare GBS disease presentation, rather than "certain vaccines". This distinction is crucial since the reader could infer from the author's statement that there are other vaccines which cause GBS disease presentation, which would be an incorrect assumption/inference.
932	Agreement	While too late to make much of a difference to Canada, I do hope the approval will allow supply to GAVI. Especially considering it's fridge stable.
301	Disagreement	Looks like the study covers Delta only, as Delta is mentioned several times but Omicron is never. Feel like all these studies should have that info in the abstract.
387	Agreement	Moderate intensity jogging is a mile every 10 minutes. So we should go jogging for 9 miles after a vaccine shot??
491	Disagreement	This isn’t a study, but it’s news directly related to pediatric vaccines for Covid, so I thought I would share here and see if the mods would allow it.
919	Agreement	We cannot continue the course we are on without expecting constant mutations and immune evasion over the years. Best case scenario it slowly turns into effectively just another cold or flu after years of mutation and immunity build up. But you will see less and less people walking in for each booster as they come.  I think Dr. Michael Mina and others have outlined a worthwhile plan to keep this at manageable levels that don't overrun hospitals (the real goal here). Rapid tests are extremely cheap compared to the total cost of covid and could be manufactured in incredibly large quantities very quickly. Encouraging free rapids to be taken before work or school, even if only adhered to by a percentage of the population a few days a week, would likely have a massive impact
50	Agreement	At this rate/ dose is it even worth giving it to an 11 year old?
217	Agreement	They cite a paper   https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33958444/  showing that SARS RNA can possibly be reversed to DNA.  They use this as evidence that it could also possibly happen with the vaccine.  That seems like an inappropriate assumption.  It would, however, raise the question  If it were proven that SARS can cause DNA edits and then it were further proven that mRNA vaccines can cause DNA changes, which causes the more significant edits?   This could be a very similar situation to the heightened concern over cardiac effects from the vaccine when the cardiac effects from COVID are in fact much worse.  Study showing cardiac effects from COVID worse than the vaccine.  https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34907393/
888	Agreement	They did adjust for age:  > VE was calculated as 1-HR with HR (hazard ratio) estimated in a Cox regression model adjusted for age, sex and geographical region, and using calendar time as the underlying time scale.
74	Agreement	Does getting a second shot after 3 weeks actually do any harm in terms of eliciting a broader response to variants, or can you make up the difference with a third shot 6-8 months after the second one?
126	Agreement	It is but it still has a lot of identical epitopes on which antibodies can attach to. It just has way less than the original strain. So by getting a huge boost of antibodies you would amplify also the ones that still work... For a while. Again, protection for severe disease is still about 70% even with 2 doses if I remember well, because its about t cell response.
566	Agreement	>Houston Methodist has been sequencing 100% of COVID patients for a while now.  That is an amazing data trove, I'd love to know if there's a central way to find out how that's being used.  A brief google didn't find me, say, a page on the Houston Methodist website that lists research that's used that data.
263	Agreement	Would the efficacy be greater if there is a larger interval between doses eg eight weeks in Australia and Canada?
718	Agreement	I'd like to see this sort of study extended into the effectiveness (if any) of boosters.
597	Neutral	Abstract  The emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOC) harbor mutations associated with increasing transmission and immune escape, hence undermine the effectiveness of current COVID-19 vaccines. In late November of 2021, the Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant was identified in South Africa and rapidly spread across the globe. It was shown to exhibit significant resistance to neutralization by serum not only from convalescent patients, but also from individuals recieving currently used COVID-19 vaccines with multiple booster shots. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop next generation vaccines against VOCs like Omicron. In this study, we develop a panel of mRNA-LNP-based vaccines using the receptor binding domain (RBD) of Omicron and Delta variants, which are dominant in the current wave of COVID-19. In addition to the Omicron- and Delta-specific vaccines, the panel also includes a Hybrid vaccine that uses the RBD containing all 16 point-mutations shown in Omicron and Delta RBD, as well as a bivalent vaccine composed of both Omicron and Delta RBD-LNP in half dose. Interestingly, both Omicron-specific and Hybrid RBD-LNP elicited extremely high titer of neutralizing antibody against Omicron itself, but few to none neutralizing antibody against other SARS-CoV-2 variants. The bivalent RBD-LNP, on the other hand, generated antibody with broadly neutralizing activity against the wild-type virus and all variants. Surprisingly, similar cross-protection was also shown by the Delta-specifc RBD-LNP. Taken together, our data demonstrated that Omicron-specific mRNA vaccine can induce potent neutralizing antibody response against Omicron, but the inclusion of epitopes from other variants may be required for eliciting cross-protection. This study would lay a foundation for rational development of the next generation vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 VOCs.
670	Neutral	From the abstract :  Vaccine efficacy against infection was 30% (95%CI:-9% to 55%) and 11% (95%CI:-43% to +43%) for BNT162b2 and mRNA1273, respectively. Local and systemic adverse reactions were reported in 80% and 40%, respectively
310	Disagreement	That study isn't considering what actually happens in humans. Omicron is slower to go after the lung tissue compared to the bronchus but it is still a lower respiratory tract infection.   That study also had Delta less prone to replicate in lung tissue than the original and if that does impair Delta's severity, the counterfactual where it doesn't is concerning.
804	Agreement	P value is nearly as much a function of sample size as it is effect magnitude. While this is good supporting evidence for people who believe structured observations of the world lead to credible perspectives (ie, science), a p-value of .02 is not a massive anything.
878	Agreement	The study literally says that the risk of myocarditis is doubled for certain demographics *when compared to COVID infection.*
849	Agreement	T-cells have nothing to do with protection against infection. Or the damage that can be done in the first couple days of infection before T-cells begin nuking the virus.
581	Agreement	70% is the average across all participants. It's 60.6% vs 79.1% for vaccinated vs unvaccinated.   "with a lower prevalence among vaccinated participants (60.6%) compared with unvaccinated participants (60.6% vs. 79.1%; aRR 0.70, 95% CI 0.58-0.84)."
865	Agreement	The incubation time for measles is 10-12 days, for omicron it is 3 days.
448	Disagreement	I don't think so.   > “Either boost completely shut down viral replication within two days,”   I think the fundamental problem is how fast Omicron replicates, so you get breakthrough infections even if you have appropriate antibodies. We can't get the immune system to act any faster, unless we keep boosting every 4 months and never let the neutralising antibody titers wane. Which is not a good idea. We just have to accept that while breakthrough infections are going to happen, the memory B and T cells will be in time to stop the infection from becoming severe.  Then there is the second problem of boosters tending to amplify antibody clones that were present in the first Covid jab we ever took. So instead of developing new antibodies that are specifically recognize Omicron's mutated epitopes, when boosted with an Omicron-specific vaccine, the memory B cells that were already generated and recognise non-mutated epitopes dominate the response. AKA original antigenic sin.
485	Disagreement	The Water Reed vaccine is severely over-hyped. It's just cludging different spike proteins into one vaccine. There's no evidence that simply mixing the spike proteins together (like tetravalent flu vaccines) wouldn't work as well as assembling them into mixed nanoparticles.  There's a good chance that if a new variant comes up, they would need to incorporate that new variant's spike protein into the vaccine, making it slow as hell. They are a bit dodgy about whether the "single vaccine" refers to the concept (which wouldn't need to change) vs the exact formulation. If it's just the concept, then it's no faster (and probably slower) than redesigning an mRNA vaccine.  And they also haven't addressed whether the cross-strain effect would work on someone that was already vaccinated with the approved vaccines (or was infected) and thus already has the "original antigenic sin" problem.
419	Agreement	What the chances they get told to pursue the BLA route, like the FDA recently 'recommended' for the Covaxin shot?
148	Neutral	Note the authors state: "predicting the continued efficacy of the existing vaccines". Here efficacy refers to preventing moderate to severe symptoms not asymptomatic infection.  **ABSTRACT**   At the time of this writing, December 2021, potential emergence of vaccine escape variants of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is a grave global concern. The interface between the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein and the host receptor (ACE2) overlaps the binding site of principal neutralizing antibodies (NAb), limiting the repertoire of viable mutations. Nonetheless, variants with multiple RBD mutations have risen to dominance. Nonadditive, epistatic relationships among RBD mutations are apparent, and assessing the impact of such epistasis on the mutational landscape, particularly the risk of vaccine escape, is crucial. We employed protein structure modeling using Rosetta to compare the effects of all single mutants at the RBD-NAb and RBD-ACE2 interfaces for the wild type and Delta, Gamma, and Omicron variants. Overall, epistasis at the RBD interface appears to be limited, and the effects of most multiple mutations are additive. Epistasis at the Delta variant interface weakly stabilizes NAb interaction relative to ACE2 interaction, whereas in Gamma, epistasis more substantially destabilizes NAb interaction. Despite bearing many more RBD mutations, the epistatic landscape of Omicron closely resembles that of Gamma. Thus, although Omicron poses new risks not observed with Delta, structural constraints on the RBD appear to hamper continued evolution toward more complete vaccine escape. The modest ensemble of mutations relative to the wild type that are currently known to reduce vaccine efficacy is likely to contain the majority of all possible escape mutations for future variants, predicting the continued efficacy of the existing vaccines.   **IMPORTANCE**  Emergence of vaccine escape variants of SARS-CoV-2 is arguably the most pressing problem during the COVID-19 pandemic as vaccines are distributed worldwide. We employed a computational approach to assess the risk of antibody escape resulting from mutations in the receptor-binding domain of the spike protein of the wild-type SARS-CoV-2 virus as well as the Delta, Gamma, and Omicron variants. The efficacy of the existing vaccines against Omicron could be substantially reduced relative to the wild type, and the potential for vaccine escape is of grave concern. Our results suggest that although Omicron poses new evolutionary risks not observed for Delta, structural constraints on the RBD make continued evolution toward more complete vaccine escape from either Delta or Omicron unlikely. The modest set of escape-enhancing mutations already identified for the wild type likely include the majority of all possible mutations with this effect.
557	Agreement	> We next used a logistic additive model with a test negative case control design to estimate relative vaccine effectiveness against becoming a confirmed case with Delta (2553 cases) and/or Omicron (1001 cases) in a population of 1.2 million people in the largest health board in Scotland, NHS GG&C, between 6th -12th December 2021...     > We ran two models, one with time since vaccination included, to estimate the protection provided by recent vaccination, and one without, to observe the current protection in today’s mixed and waned population.
324	Disagreement	Vaccines don't provide much more protection against infection than a brand-new 3rd dose. The "slight boost" claim is not accounting for waning protection. They also warn sample size is small, so margin of error is large and mention other real world data suggests larger effect.
38	Neutral	An immunologist would know far better, but here's my two cents as someone who follows the commercial side of things.  The role of non-neutralizing binding antibodies in COVID is multi-faceted and still being explored. On one hand, non-neutralizing binding antibodies may have a role in viral clearance (fixing complement, triggering opsonization by macrophages, etc). I feel most people I speak to (or papers that I read) assume there is a protective role for non-neutralizing antibodies.  On the other hand, non-neutralizing binding antibodies might also play a role in increasing disease severity, especially when they are not accompanied by sufficient titers of neutralizing antibodies. Some example papers touching upon this subject:  [https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/scitranslmed.abm7853](https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/scitranslmed.abm7853)  [https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s41745-021-00268-8](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s41745-021-00268-8)  [https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8092137/](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8092137/)  In line with the ideas expressed in those papers, during the early stages of COVID vaccine development, vaccine associated enhanced respiratory disease (VAERD) was viewed as a potential hurdle to successfully creating a COVID vaccine. Like other manifestations of ADE, VAERD is thought to be caused by binding antibodies with insufficient neutralizing activity. Some in-vitro and animal model experiments demonstrated that VAERD was *theoretically* possible with coronavirus vaccines; fortunately, it turned out that none of the approved COVID vaccines elicited VAERD.
587	Neutral	Abstract   The emergence of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) variants continues to shape the coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19) pandemic. The detection and rapid spread of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant (lineage B.1.1.529) in Botswana and South Africa became a global concern because it contained 15 mutations in the spike protein immunogenic receptor binding domain and was less neutralized by sera derived from vaccinees compared to the previously dominant Delta variant. To investigate if Omicron is more likely than Delta to cause infections in vaccinated persons, we analyzed 37,877 nasal swab PCR tests conducted from 12-26 December 2021 and calculated the test positivity rates for each variant by vaccination status. We found that the positivity rate among unvaccinated persons was higher for Delta (5.2%) than Omicron (4.5%). We found similar results in persons who received a single vaccine dose. Conversely, our results show that Omicron had higher positivity rates than Delta among those who received two doses within five months (Omicron = 4.7% vs. Delta = 2.6%), two doses more than five months ago (4.2% vs. 2.9%), and three vaccine doses (2.2% vs. 0.9%). Our estimates of Omicron positivity rates in persons receiving one or two vaccine doses were not significantly lower than unvaccinated persons but were 49.7% lower after three doses. In comparison, the reduction in Delta positivity rates from unvaccinated to 2 vaccine doses was 45.6-49.6% and to 3 vaccine doses was 83.2%. Despite the higher positivity rates for Omicron in vaccinated persons, we still found that 91.2% of the Omicron infections in our study occurred in persons who were eligible for 1 or more vaccine doses at the time of PCR testing. In conclusion, escape from vaccine-induced immunity likely contributed to the rapid rise in Omicron infections.
439	Disagreement	Could it be that a mildly effective vaccine still protected people prior to 8 months, so by 8 months they are less likely to have any natural immunity.   I haven't read this yet, but unless they were sure they found immune naive controls, then this graph is basically "at a pop level, when does a vax + nativity become less effective than months of just living through the pandemic and some level of natural immunity".  I would bet that if you broke these groups out, the vax + natural would still be better than natural, and vax + naive would still be better than naive. We just see differing ratios here and assume they're equal (Simpson's paradox!?).
410	Agreement	VAERS is a pretty bad way to identify adverse events. I’d love to see an analysis of the incidence of myocarditis of booster doses in young men
53	Agreement	Because it wouldn’t follow age de-escalation protocol for approval. You cannot skip an age group and go to the younger group.
600	Neutral	Abstract:  Infection-neutralizing antibody responses after SARS-CoV-2 infection or COVID-19 vaccination are an essential component of antiviral immunity. Antibody-mediated protection is challenged by the emergence of SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VoCs) with immune escape properties, such as omicron (B.1.1.529) that is rapidly spreading worldwide. Here, we report neutralizing antibody dynamics in a longitudinal cohort of COVID-19 convalescent and infection-naive individuals vaccinated with mRNA BNT162b2 by quantifying anti-SARS-CoV-2-spike antibodies and determining their avidity and neutralization capacity in serum. Using live-virus neutralization assays, we show that a superior infection-neutralizing capacity against all VoCs, including omicron, developed after either two vaccinations in convalescents or after a third vaccination or breakthrough infection of twice-vaccinated, naive individuals. These three consecutive spike antigen exposures resulted in an increasing neutralization capacity per anti-spike antibody unit and were paralleled by stepwise increases in antibody avidity. We conclude that an infection-plus-vaccination-induced hybrid immunity or a triple immunization can induce high-quality antibodies with superior neutralization capacity against VoCs, including omicron.
688	Agreement	I agree that it should have been considered, but the study is from China so they wouldn't have had contact with SARS-CoV-2 "on a routine basis".
880	Agreement	The why is a good question:But it appear in danish data, that they are PCR-tested less pr 100.000 person:  [Report on Breakthrough infections - \[In Danish\]](https://files.ssi.dk/covid19/gennembrudsinfektion/rapport/gennembrudsinfektion-covid19-uge49-2021-ji88)Figure 10, shows that roughly 30& of the unvaccinated between 16-64 have been tested in the latest period (6/11-4/12), while roughly 40% of the doublejabbed have been.If they have a recent (less than 12 weeks old) positive PCR-test, they are also advised not to  get tested - and I think this could possibly skew the results.  Edit: All with a positive PCR-test are advised not to test for the first 12 weeks. The reason why i think it could skew the results, is due to the higher prevalence of infections in the unvaccinated group in the months leading up to to the period with omicron.
717	Agreement	I'd imagine it has something to do with the dosag, which is higher for Moderna
244	Neutral	Vaxart is in phase 2 trial of an oral vax with the nucleocapsid protein that mutates only slightly, in addition to the spike. Oramed also has an oral vax with spike, membrane, and envelope proteins. Sadly, these are small companies with less money than giants like Pfizer, so it'll probably be a while before they get approved. Another oral vax by Migvax also has the nucleocapsid and spike, but they're crowd funded and moving even slower in trials.
132	Neutral	It took something like 7 months to create an H1N1pdm vaccine 12 years ago. It should take much less with mRNA vaccines.
563	Agreement	>Despite recent efforts demonstrating that organization and presentation of vaccine components are just as important as composition in dictating vaccine efficacy, antiviral vaccines have long focused solely on the identification of the immunological target. Herein, we describe a study aimed at exploring how vaccine component presentation in the context of spherical nucleic acids (SNAs) can be used to elicit and maximize an antiviral response. Using COVID-19 as a topical example of an infectious disease with an urgent need for rapid vaccine development, we designed an antiviral SNA vaccine, encapsulating the receptor-binding domain (RBD) subunit into a liposome and decorating the core with a dense shell of CpG motif toll-like receptor 9 agonist oligonucleotides. This vaccine induces memory B cell formation in human cells, and in vivo administration into mice generates robust binding and neutralizing antibody titers. Moreover, the SNA vaccine outperforms multiple simple mixtures incorporating clinically employed adjuvants. Through modular changes to SNA structure, we uncover key relationships and proteomic insights between adjuvant and antigen ratios, concepts potentially translatable across vaccine platforms and disease models. Importantly, when humanized ACE2 transgenic mice were challenged in vivo against a lethal live virus, only mice that received the SNA vaccine had a 100% survival rate and lungs that were clear of virus by plaque analysis. This work underscores the potential for SNAs to be implemented as an easily adaptable and generalizable platform to fight infectious disease and demonstrates the importance of structure and presentation in the design of next-generation antiviral vaccines.
220	Agreement	They have no evidence of severity *because* the hospitalisation data is so limited.
96	Agreement	I believe that's for 3 doses, not 2.
809	Agreement	rapid test could be produced and distributed, with a 200% profit, at $1 for the customers (with a near 99% efficiency rate on negative results) but imo it wont happen for at least another year until ppl are as focused on it. companies just want the money. to add insult to injury's, the information im stating was provided nearly 1 year ago, and still their being sold for upwards of $10 on the cheap end, maybe $5-7 if you can get/have a wholesale account. ppl and companies are trying to maintain the market before it gets dropped out the bottom from them.imo
83	Agreement	Good point.
697	Agreement	I know about the press statement about 3x AZ  > Neutralising antibody levels against Omicron following a third dose boost of Vaxzevria were broadly similar to levels achieved after two doses against the Delta variant   https://www.astrazeneca.com/media-centre/press-releases/2021/vaxzevria-significantly-boosted-antibody-levels-against-omicron.html  EDIT: Also https://old.reddit.com/r/COVID19/search/?q=vaxzevria&sort=new&restrict_sr=on
307	Disagreement	Safe and EFFECTIVE
957	Agreement	Yes, taken at face value, that is what the study shows (for people more than 91 days after 2-dose vaccination).
145	Neutral	MY understanding is that because the government provides the supply they can’t prescribe it outside of officially authorized circumstances.
1000	Disagreement	Totally correct.   Viral load as measured by PCR is meaningless. Infectious Virus Titers are the key metric.  People are just pumping out bad science to get published during this pandemic. It's academic opportunist behaviour.
416	Agreement	What about when you get both? Cause there's a lot of breakthroughs lately.
549	Agreement	> Overall, COVID-19 convalescents showed a higher neutralization capacity against all 140 SARS-CoV-2 VoCs compared to infection-naive individuals, even after three vaccinations in 141 the latter.  Interesting, first time I’ve seen this stated.
5	Neutral	*In our review and analysis of death reports to VAERS following mRNA vaccination, we found no unusual patterns in cause of death among the death reports received. Under the COVID-19 vaccine EUA regulations, health-care providers are required to report deaths and life-threatening adverse health events after COVID-19 vaccinations to VAERS regardless of their potential association with vaccination.*
705	Agreement	I think there was a study that looked at this; Sub thread: [reddit.com/r/COVID19/comments/r9oijy/protection_and_waning_of_natural_and_hybrid](https://www.reddit.com/r/COVID19/comments/r9oijy/protection_and_waning_of_natural_and_hybrid)
708	Agreement	I think you're right and would note the extreme care that many scientists have taken to avoid even the appearance of discouraging vaccination.  My recollection is that the Pfizer and Moderna phase 1-3 trials all excluded (or intended to exclude) patients with prior history of COVID infection, so this is still a question of interest.  This study also notes that:  > The higher increased rate of the antibody titer in the worsened group than in the non-worsened group suggests an excessive immune response to vaccination associated with worsening of sequelae.
144	Agreement	My brain isn't working well today. I know this won't yield exact results, but can anyone take a stab at what 2 doses vs Omicron is from this data?  3 doses is a 67.3% efficacy compared to unvaxxed. 3 doses is 66.3% compared to 2 doses. This would make 2 doses nearly zero, right?
270	Agreement	Yes, Novavax was included in a COV-BOOST trial conducted in the UK in the fall 2021. http://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(21)02717-3/fulltext
927	Agreement	What are "t-cell only vaccines"?  Is there some method of vaccination against a virus that somehow does not spur any B-cell activity or antibody production?  Do you have any references or pointers to somewhere I can read about that?
480	Disagreement	Source? I don't believe we've seen data on severity of omicron at all yet.
285	Disagreement	Friendly reminder that VAERS data isn't moderated or verified, and anyone is allowed to submit data to it.
890	Agreement	They let the study run until this past dec 27th... well into omicron spike. but a week more could see change.  They only counted a previous infections that dated 13 months ago or more.   Definitely 2nd vaccine doses were later.  Perhaps 5-6 months later.  A fairer way to compare the immunity of both would be to include infections prior to the average 2nd dose timing, as prior infection as a risk of getting covid twice in the year or so.
952	Agreement	Yes I had seen some hypothesizing on Twitter that it would have a little bit less immune escape, but nice to see that theory translate to real world data.
295	Disagreement	I’m not an expert but I read a lot of this stuff and this is pretty much the answer. A third vaccination/exposure to the antigen seems to stimulate the immune system to be able to make “better” antibodies that are more equipped to “deal with” variants. Just to illustrate the point, if the immune system could “think” or “talk”, it’s basically saying “looks like we’re going to see this often, let’s brainstorm how to deal with it better in the future.”  It also stands to reason that even once antibodies wane as expected, B cells in boosted immune systems would remain better equipped to jump back into action with those “better” antibodies upon a subsequent infection.  Another interesting question is “if 3 is better than 2, is 4 better than 3, or is there a point at which diminishing returns begins to set in?”
951	Agreement	Yeah, but it’s odd to see it shift so quickly from decently positive protection to hugely negative, in a timespan of months. Even if you assume the true VE at 91-150 is literally zero, it takes a decent sized behavioral adjustment to get that estimate from -75 to 0. And then if you apply that same adjustment to the previous intervals, they become much higher estimates of VE than we’ve seen in other studies of Omicron
14	Agreement	> I don't think any new research of Omicron would be in time before the next mutation occurs.  Current vaccines are based on the wild-type strain and work well on the Delta lineage. Omicron is a branch of the Beta lineage, and the vaccines don't work as well on Omicron. Basing the new vaccination/booster strategy on the base of what will likely be the lineage of the next serious variant is extremely prudent.  Just as the current vaccines didn't need to match Delta to work on Delta, Omicron-based vaccines don't need to match a new variant if that variant is a descendant of Omicron.
706	Agreement	I think you could be on to it : [https://www.reddit.com/r/COVID19/comments/se4fva/comment/humyxxm/?utm\_source=share&utm\_medium=web2x&context=3](https://www.reddit.com/r/COVID19/comments/se4fva/comment/humyxxm/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3)  if my calculations are correct, incidence rates of hospitalization & death of 2-dose vaxxed seem no better really than unvaxxed. case incidence rates seem way worse among 2-dose vaxxed than unvaxxed. I think the big question is whether 2-dose vaxxed are actually more prone to infection somehow (e.g. could this happen from something like ADE?), or the case counts are just higher for them because of behavioral confounders. If they’re more prone to infection then it would at least seem two doses still provides a high degree of protection from severe disease and death such that those outcomes balance out to be same as unvaxxed. Am I thinking about this correctly?  why do you say it’s making the boosters look much worse than you’d expect?
516	Agreement	(AstraZeneca, Sputnik and Sinopharm in Argentina)
752	Agreement	It has been a while since I studied immunology, but this is really interesting and new to me! Does this phenomenon have a name or can you point me towards some literature on the subject? I'd like to read up on it.
357	Agreement	Denmark may have the data to make more varied analysis.
122	Agreement	Is this suggesting that the effectiveness of 2 doses is nearly zero vs omicron?
622	Agreement	Apparently, but the striations in figures 2(a)-2(d), if I'm reading them right, make me extremely skeptical about the overall validity of the model, on reflection.
910	Agreement	To your first sentence, the data did not give a p value. I don’t see how you can conclude a vaccine after having covid was a statistically significant increase in immunity nor a clinically significant increase.   And 94% of people were vaccinated. The number of unvaccinated and prior infection is small and likely too small to have enough power to use this data definitively.   Finally forget relative risk, what is the absolute risk reduction of a shot post covid infection and how does it compare to the risk of the vaccine itself? And how does this change by age and sex? This sample was 84% women average age 46.   You seem to overgeneralize these findings and the data does not support that claim.
896	Agreement	This is a great article.  If anything it offers a glimpse on how advanced the understanding of how social media can be used to influence public opinion has become.  Not sure what to think about this , mixed feelings to say the least.
984	Disagreement	Is S Africa that much healthier? Doesn't close to a quarter of S Africa have HIV?  As well, this study had a massive sample size (N=227k) and had a control group. It's not as if they're comparing vaxxed S Africans to unvaxxed Americans.
473	Disagreement	Prior dominant variants may not have been direct descendants of one another, but they were all genetically much closer. I don't think Omicron necessarily established a new norm for VoCs to be complete "breakaways" coming out of nowhere.
478	Disagreement	So heart inflammation only exists after a person walks through the doors of a hospital? What are you trying to say here guy?
864	Agreement	The headline here I think is the significantly negative vaccine effectiveness estimates for Omicron, for 2-dose vaccination with either Pfizer or Moderna, 91-150 days after 14 days after the second dose.  The authors offer the following explanation:  > The negative estimates in the final period arguably suggest different behaviour and/or exposure patterns in the vaccinated and unvaccinated cohorts causing underestimation of the VE. This was likely the result of Omicron spreading rapidly initially through single (super-spreading) events causing many infections among young, vaccinated individuals.  This explanation seems reasonable to me, though I want to suggest another possibility. They mention they excluded previously PCR-positive individuals; however, I would have to wonder if this adequately controls for prior infection -- we might reasonably expect a higher proportion of undocumented prior infection in the unvaccinated, both because they were less protected from infection during the Delta wave, and, perhaps, because they are less likely to be tested. Thoughts?
956	Agreement	Yes, exactly. You tell a room full of people "you were exposed to xx ... how many of you are feeling symptoms?" Their brains will make them hypersensitive to anything resembling symptoms.
296	Disagreement	If the actually effectiveness against infection was roughly 0% at 8 months but having gotten vaccinated changes behavior, then I think you could see a graph like this.
730	Agreement	If this holds true it's likely that vaccines saved many lives by giving Omicron an advantage over Delta. Omicron is significantly less likely to cause death and recovery from infection does seem to prevent against reinfection by Delta at least in the near term. The speed at which science was able to develop and deploy vaccines against C19 was essential for this to occur.
379	Agreement	I would be very concerned about this effect as well. I was trying to estimate it using a hypothetical recently.  Imagine you have 3 groups of people with a base line hospitalization rate of 3% (from all other causes) and a hypothetical disease which hospitalizes 10% of people who get it. You also have 2 vaccines, vaccine B which is 100% effective against hospitalization but 0% effective against infection, and vaccine C which is 100% effective against infection (and by extension hospitalization). You give no vaccine to the first group (group A), vaccine B to the second group (group B), and vaccine C to the third group (group C). In the study you count "disease associated hospitalizations" where the patient is hospitalized and tests positive for infection, but doesn't require that the hospitalization be _caused_ by the disease. Imagine each group has 1000 people, and that everyone is infected during the study (this effect scales with this, so you can pick an infection rate without effecting the outcome too much).   - Group A then has (1-(1-3%)\*(1-10%))\*1000 = 127 hospitalizations, all of which are disease associated (because everyone is exposed)  - Group B has 3%*1000 = 30 hospitalizations, all of which are _marked_ disease associated, even though all of which would have happened anyway.  - Group C has the baseline rate of 30 hospitalizations, but the infection prevention means that none of them are marked as disease associated, so 0 per study.  By this hypothetical study, vaccine C would show 100% protection against hospitalization, but vaccine B would only show up as 76.4% effective against hospitalization even though it's in reality a perfect vaccine! This effect gets worse as the group gets older and the baseline hospitalization rate increases. The vaccine trial protocols from Pfizer/Moderna explicitly control for this effect by only counting "severe" cases instead of hospitalizations and having explicit symptomatic criteria for those cases. The fact that observational studies don't seem to do this has always been concerning to me.
642	Agreement	Confidence interval of the incubation time. It means that the statistics show that there is a 95% chance that the true incubation period is somewhere between 2.87 days and 3.6 days.
754	Agreement	It just doesn’t make sense why you’d do that comparison or what that information means. Like it doesn’t tell me anything about the effect of Covid or the vaccine.
59	Neutral	Came here to say that. Omicron is a qualitative change, we need to roll out an updated vaccine by September at the latest
799	Agreement	Omicron is better at replication in the upper respiratory tract than in the lungs, so it spreads more efficiently but with less severe disease: [“Omicron SARS-CoV-2 infects and multiplies 70 times faster than the Delta variant and original SARS-CoV-2 in human bronchus, which may explain why Omicron may transmit faster between humans than previous variants. Their study also showed that the Omicron infection in the lung is significantly lower than the original SARS-CoV-2, which may be an indicator of lower disease severity.”](https://www.med.hku.hk/en/news/press/20211215-omicron-sars-cov-2-infection)
372	Agreement	I think the idea had to do with load. With an infection one presumably has a significant exposure to spike but it's spread out over time whereas in vaccination a massive load is created in the body in a very short time period. Basically the idea that the poison is in the dose (exposure per unit time). I'm not a cellular biologist so I can't act as an expert one way or another, just playing devil's advocate because I think it's important to genuinely want to understand your opposition.
272	Agreement	Yes, the age- and sex-weighted increase for the first and second doses combined was 1.52 cases per 100,000 vaccinees, i.e., 1 in 65,800.  For females >= 65 the combined increase was 4.62 cases per 100,000 vaccinees, i.e., 1 in 21,600, but the confidence intervals are quite wide.  See the right-most column in Table 1 for more detail.
975	Disagreement	Has it been widely reported and to what degree? Sometimes papers say "X is effective" and they actually mean "X is barely effective".
170	Agreement	Seems to be. Though at least it’s only talking about catching it, not how badly it will effect you.
240	Agreement	Usually confounding factors, but there could be genuine situations (read: not in this case) where VE is negative, meaning there's an enhanced risk of infection as opposed to reduced one.  In this case it's likely a combination of cryptic infections in the unvaccinated group (boosting aggregate immunity above true zero) as well as better healthcare seeking behavior in the vaccinated group (boosting aggregate immunity below equivalent unvaccinated group). Once protection from the vaccine is close to true zero, you can get artefactual negative VEs.
208	Agreement	The relevant numbers of the study are as follows:       | vaccine status| omicron      | delta        | cov negative | | :---          | ---:    | ---:  | ---:  | | 3 mrna | 2441 | 679  | 18587 | | 2 mrna | 7245 | 4570 | 19456 | | 0 mrna | 3412 | 5044 | 8721  |  For simplicity let's just consider what the authors call the "crude" odds-ratio (OR)          The crude odds ratio for 2 mrna vs unvaccinated for omicron would be defined as          (# 2 mrna and omicron positive / # 2 mrna and cov negative) / (# 0 mrna and omicron positive / # 0 mrna and cov negative)          = (7245/19456)/(3412/8721)         ~ 0.95179210094       And the relative effectiveness here is taken to be (1 - odds ratio)     that gives us          1 - 0.95179210094        = 0.04820789905         that is, about 4.82%  relative effectiveness for 2 mrna vs unvaccinated for omicron
359	Agreement	Do we have estimates for protection from natural immunity over similar timeframes?
875	Agreement	The research was funded by J&J (Janssen Vaccines = J&J); Barouch has patent conflicts of interest. Previous  papers have similar positive spin narrative; general tenor in tension with findings from independent studies.   n=24, 41 are small numbers. I can’t  find any information in that preprint about the demographic characteristics of those two study groups, and only the vaguest allusion on how they were selected; the split 65 = 24 + 41 into JJ and BNT does not appear to have been randomized in any way. Am I missing something?
601	Neutral	Abstract:   The paper presents the effect of COVID-19 mRNA (Pfizer/BioNT) vaccine on in vitro glial cells of the brain studied by means of Raman spectroscopy and imaging. The results obtained for human brain normal and tumor glial cells of astrocytes, astrocytoma, glioblastoma incubated with the Covid-19 mRNA vaccine Pfizer/BioNT vaccine show alterations in the reduction-oxidation pathways associated with Cytochrome c. We found that the Pfizer/BioNT vaccine down regulate the concentration of cytochrome c in mitochondria upon incubation with normal and tumorous glial cells. Concentration of oxidized form of cytochrome c in brain cells has been shown to decrease upon incubation the mRNA vaccine. Lower concentration of oxidized cytochrome c results in lower effectiveness of oxidative phosphorylation (respiration), reduced apoptosis and lessened ATP production. Alteration of Amide I concentration, which may reflect the decrease of mRNA adenine nucleotide translocator. Moreover, mRNA vaccine leads to alterations in biochemical composition of lipids that suggest the increasing role of signaling. mRNA vaccine produce statistically significant changes in cell nucleus due to histone alterations. The results obtained for mitochondria, lipid droplets, cytoplasm may suggest that COVID-19 mRNA (Pfizer/BioNT) vaccine reprograms immune responses. The observed alterations in biochemical profiles upon incubation with COVID-19 mRNA in the specific organelles of the glial cells are similar to those we observe for brain cancer vs grade of aggressiveness.
510	Agreement	"Associations were strongest in males younger than 40 years for all vaccine types with an additional 3 (95%CI 1, 5) and 12 (95% CI 1,17) events per million estimated in the 1-28 days following a first dose of BNT162b2 and mRNA-1273, respectively; 14 (95%CI 8, 17), 12 (95%CI 1, 7) and 101 (95%CI 95, 104) additional events following a second dose of ChAdOx1, BNT162b2 and mRNA-1273, respectively; and 13 (95%CI 7, 15) additional events following a third dose of BNT162b2, compared with 7 (95%CI 2, 11) additional events following COVID-19 infection."  Who here still supports mandated double vaccinations for healthy young males who have already had Covid-19? And if you do, what is your scientific rationale for doing so in 13-16 years age group?
435	Disagreement	A third explanation that is the likelihood to seek testing; I wish this were investigated more.  This study doesn't say anything specific about testing protocol, but given that they're using administrative data I expect they're just looking at the share of each group who had a positive test between January and October under normal Swedish testing protocol at the time. That could be heavily influenced by vaccinated people being more likely to get tested for various reasons (more trust in the health system, more conscientious, generally more concerned about COVID). The match criteria used here wouldn't control for such an effect.
586	Neutral	Abstract   SARS-CoV-2 Omicron is highly transmissible and has substantial resistance to antibody neutralization following immunization with ancestral spike-matched vaccines. It is unclear whether boosting with Omicron-specific vaccines would enhance immunity and protection. Here, nonhuman primates that received mRNA-1273 at weeks 0 and 4 were boosted at week 41 with mRNA-1273 or mRNA-Omicron. Neutralizing antibody titers against D614G were 4760 and 270 reciprocal ID50 at week 6 (peak) and week 41 (pre-boost), respectively, and 320 and 110 for Omicron. Two weeks after boost, titers against D614G and Omicron increased to 5360 and 2980, respectively, for mRNA-1273 and 2670 and 1930 for mRNA-Omicron. Following either boost, 70-80% of spike-specific B cells were cross-reactive against both WA1 and Omicron. Significant and equivalent control of virus replication in lower airways was observed following either boost. Therefore, **an Omicron boost may not provide greater immunity or protection compared to a boost with the current mRNA-1273 vaccine.**
35	Agreement	Also how many were asymptomatic and just went to the ED or Urgent care to get tested ?
635	Agreement	Both.  Admission rates: 54.5% alpha, 43.0% delta, 14.7% omicron  Median length-of-stay (days): 5.1 alpha, 5.4 delta, 3.0 omicron  (Although they don't explicitly say this, the median stay length must be of only admitted patients, or else it would be 0 for delta and omicron, since less than half were admitted.)
434	Disagreement	A spring wave seems to be par for the course for the seasonality of this virus, so far. I have been saying it would likely happen since even before Omicron. Anecdotally, people tend to report an increase in common colds at the change of season, but I haven't found cold hard data to support that... Many people seems to think that a seasonal pattern can only mean a flu-like pattern, which of course is absolutely not the case.  However, the fall to winter wave seems to tend to be of much higher intensity, but that may depend on which variants are in circulation and the level of immunity built in the previous wave.  Without models that are precise enough to know that and the uncertainty of new variants... Do we encourage booster doses to vulnerable people just in case or do we wait until fall, perhaps with adapted doses. I think from a public health perspective that the second option may be much more favorable, to avoid losing the confidence of too many people.
312	Disagreement	The paper states "he took prescribed amphetamine/dextroamphetamine during the school year for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder but was not currently receiving it"     Chronic stimulant use has long been known to be bad for the heart, but I don't think we can draw any conclusions here. I don't see any reason to avoid vaccination if you have a history of stimulant use.
702	Agreement	I think it’s safe at this point to assume that a significant number of unvaccinated are against all things covid mitigation or even acknowledging it’s existence, ergo they would not seek out testing.
476	Disagreement	Sad how they literally address evidence of "rapid decline" of "hyper-elevated" antibodies in the vaccinated within the study, but mention of it is absent from title/abstract. Being generous, I suppose you could interpret "It further suggests a potential need to maintain high RBD antibody levels to control the more infectious SARS-CoV-2 variants" as a hint.
332	Agreement	> I think the fundamental problem is how fast Omicron replicates, so you get breakthrough infections even if you have appropriate antibodies.  Does this mean people might start to get infected every 2 months and be possibly out for a week during that period?
474	Disagreement	Probably due to the dose being lower for the booster of Modena
616	Agreement	And of course questions about knowing someone who ended up on the emergency room from or following the vaccine too right?    Thank God reddit commenters are not the ones designing studies so that they only confirm their existing biases.... Mostly.
8	Agreement	> Any advantage to survival no matter how slight will TEND to reduce virulence and enhance transmission.   That "tend" is doing some heavy lifting here. There are whole classes of beneficial (for the virus) adaptions that increase both transmission and virulence - things like higher replication rate, higher receptor affinity, etc. Delta is a pretty clear case study of how important these can be.
422	Agreement	With time though could we expect it to become generally linear?  That is, with variants like Omicron (BA2) becoming dominant, then over time can we expect non-dominant variants to die off - or at least have fewer opportunities to mutate (and therefore be less likely)?
267	Agreement	Yep...
57	Neutral	Broader antibodies are induced through a process of somatic hypermutation and affinity maturation within B cells at germinal centres.
385	Agreement	Isn't it advised not to exercise for two weeks after vaccination in order to prevent myocarditis?
184	Agreement	Symptomatic infection ≠ hospitalized/dead. We’re not back at the start by any means.
392	Agreement	So does that mean omicron is the end of the story that Covid 19 is fully adapted to humans now?
872	Agreement	The only other thing I thought was interesting was the use of a pre-fusion spike, which was nice to see.
201	Agreement	The difference here is that it was a study for the vaccine against COVID variants that pre-date omicron, for which we might assume it would be more effective but unfortunately those were no longer in the community.   The question then for regulators would be whether they approve it similar to how we did the original vaccines for those variants, or do we not and repeat trials with something geared towards current variants.   Given this has taken years to complete, and repeating would likely take at least another year, I would bet they approve and plan on boosters to align with the other age groups.
101	Neutral	I think headlines have to stop focusing on “preventing infection” and instead how much they help protect against severe disease and hospitalization and for how long
60	Agreement	Can anyone give a good reason why the FDA hasn't approved Covaxin? They've had pediatric data for months, and it appears to be safe and effective. Approving a traditional vaccine like this seems like a no-brainer, especially one that well over 100 mil have already recieved.
495	Disagreement	Wait, does anyone else find this title absurdly misleading?  > Myocarditis Risk 17 Times Higher for Unvaccinated Patients Ages 12-30 Who Get COVID-19 Than COVID-Vaccinated Patients  I was certain that what they were saying was that the risk of myocarditis after COVID-19 infection was 17-fold lower in vaccinated patients. As in, the vaccine reduces your odds of COVID-induced myocarditis by 17 fold.  But looking at the contents of the data... It’s literally just another comparison of post-vaccine myocarditis versus post-COVID myocarditis.   The way they’ve worded this was highly confusing to me. Was that just me?
895	Agreement	They suggest an explanation for that:  The negative estimates in the final period  arguably  suggest  different  behaviour  and/or  exposure  patterns  in  the  vaccinated  and  unvaccinated  cohorts  causing  underestimation  of  the  VE.  This  was  likely  the  result  of  Omicron  spreading rapidly initially through single (super-spreading) events causing many infections among young, vaccinated individuals
147	Agreement	Not unless I'm missing something.
686	Agreement	https://www.osfhealthcare.org/blog/covid-neurological-impact/ here’s an example of post effects, so that’s not even counting harm during infection like https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/health/conditions-and-diseases/coronavirus/what-coronavirus-does-to-the-lungs
397	Agreement	TBF, the study wasn't designed to detect anything of consequence, unfortunately.  too small for both safety and efficacy.  less than 50% against infection and 0% for severe disease.
894	Agreement	They say they had a booster dose within the last 2.5 months. I don’t see where they specify the booster was at least 2 weeks ago. Is that implied by triple vaxxed? Am I missing that somewhere?
317	Disagreement	This is after though.
177	Agreement	So, think of yourself as a pandemic organism simply wanting to survive. Now, imagine the organism that is your primary reservoir for survival fights back both with the old school physiological responses millions of years old but also utilizes both physical barriers to transmission AND vaccines to keep you from surviving.  And so, you face these challenges to your continued existence. What do you do? Yes, I realize I am engaging in anthropomorphism, but the bottom line is pretty much the above and Omicron is the outcome.  I have studied and researched a great deal over the years on pandemic organisms and how they "work." Frankly, as a tip of the spear epi and not an academic one, I don't care about the genomic details except as I need to understand some aspect of population penetration and sequelae. Some of the best research that gets at the things I am concerned about are bird pandemic organisms that have been followed from coast to coast with analysis of how the organisms have changed during the course of the pandemic.  Some generalizations, observations I have come to see are that IF they are virulent, they become less so as they spread through a naive population. Any advantage to survival no matter how slight will TEND to reduce virulence and enhance transmission. And it can happen surprisingly quickly. And don't forget the two main Coronaviruses that we live with, as a population, that are primarily a seasonal PITA in the present.  I'm surprised that I am not reading anything on what happened to SARS? Why did it change from a very efficient killing machine to essentially disappearing as an extant threat? Why is MERS not able to make that transition from what it is to something like Covid? Heck, what happened to syphilis to turn it from what it was to the sexually transmitted slow motion killer it is now days? I can't find those journal articles...  But I do remember one article I'm trying to find where a bird virus started in the east somewhat virulent then became less so extremely quickly to the point where it was almost benign as it got to the west coast... AND then for some reason became much more virulent again as it ran into the physical barrier of the ocean and a reservoir where the burden became close to 100% and the animals susceptible and with certain characteristics died while others live... AT that point the virus became very virulent just before essentially disappearing as distinct antagonistic organism to certain bird populations. I also look at things like CCR5 and can see how WE as a species have reacted to existential threats...  Much of the research I see is down at the levels of the genome and after someone develops the desriptive epi associated with an organism, so little seems to be done at other levels. For example, I am not surprised that this virus will "tend" toward improved transmission characteristics and depressed virulence. The speed is a bit surprising, but then it reminded me of that study I read on the one bird epidemic in the US and I was less so, yes, fully understanding the distinctions between humans and birds and different types of viruses...blah blah... You know while you are analyzing the bark on the tree in such detail, the world goes on and by the time you figure it out, it could be too late. I still have to wonder how many Epis would have acted when John Snow did or would they still be waiting for statistical significance and a better constructed study.   We still have so much to learn and different perspectives can inform others. So, more genomic understanding of bird viruses and a better epidemiologic understanding of of human pandemic organisms could actually result in a better response overall.  OH and maybe a bit of Crisis Communications training for a whole lot of public health including Fauci.
181	Agreement	South Africa likely is hybrid immunity among the infected vaccinated people. There shouldn't be many naive adults left in South Africa. Three major waves (with Delta unimpaired by vaccination, unlike in the Northern Hemisphere) and a high population fatality ratio (excess deaths) in a young population.
835	Agreement	So this vaccine would be a lot more sensitive to variants that affect the RBD. And I would guess that it has no efficacy against omicron whatsoever. Not good news.
767	Agreement	Just lucky...  There's no pressure for covid to become less deadly since it kills after people have been infectious for 2 weeks.  If symptoms presented before you were infectious then there would be merit to the argument.
20	Agreement	> To put this into context, in the pre-Omicron era, the UK “SIREN” study of COVID infection in healthcare workers estimated that prior infection afforded 85% protection against a second COVID infection over 6 months.  Absolutely inexplicable to use the UK SIREN study, but make no mention of the multitude of factors that point to 85% being a huge under-estimate: [Here is the published paper](https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(21\)00675-9/fulltext) the caveat as are:  1. All but two “reinfections” were classified as “possible”, the remaining two as “probable”, none as “confirmed”. The 84% estimate is based on using all “possible” reinfections... Which is kind of ridiculous. Using only “probable” or “confirmed” it was **99%**.  2. Only about one third of “reinfections” had typical COVID symptoms  3. The authors did not include baseline seronegative people who converted to seropositive as COVID-19 cases (this would underestimate protection since you’re undercounting cases in the seronegative group)  4. The authors found a pattern they indicated seemed consistent with RNA shedding, over counting “reinfections”  The authors note these issues in their paper:  > **Restricting reinfections to probable reinfections only, we estimated that between June and November 2020, participants in the positive cohort had 99% lower odds of probable reinfection, adjusted OR (aOR) 0.01 (95% CI 0.00-0.03). Restricting reinfections to those who were symptomatic we estimated participants in the positive cohort had 95% lower odds of reinfection**, aOR 0.08 (95% CI 0.05-0.13). Using our most sensitive definition of reinfections, including all those who were possible or probable the adjusted odds ratio was 0.17 (95% CI 0.13-0.24).  > A prior history of SARS-CoV-2 infection was associated with an 83% lower risk of infection, with median protective effect observed five months following primary infection. **This is the minimum likely effect as seroconversions were not included.**  > **There were 864 seroconversions in participants without a positive PCR test; these were not included as primary infections in this interim analysis.**  > **We believe this is the minimum probable effect** because the curve in the positive cohort was gradual throughout, indicating some of these potential reinfections were probably residual RNA detection at low population prevalence rather than true reinfections.  I can’t really understand using this paper as a reference and then using the 85% number without giving any thought to all of these caveats. A 5.40 fold higher risk of reinfection would still point to 95% protection *if* the number for “probable or confirmed” reinfections was used, for example.
807	Agreement	Please note that this is not a traditional inactivated vaccine. It uses a Newcastle disease virus viral vector that expresses a second generation prefusion stabilized spike protein. Very different from Sinopharm and other inactivated vaccines.
69	Agreement	Do you have a link on the Delta-specific booster? I have only seen results for the Beta one, I was under the impression that the Delta-specific booster trials have not yet released data.
796	Agreement	Ok, that's one possible situation, it also could have been 20 infecting one new person, however I like to go with Occam's razor and guess multiple people who work with COVID positive people showed up to this party already infected with COVID.
454	Disagreement	I very much disagree with this line of thinking and believe it to be so harmful as to border propaganda.  We can have multiple goals at once. There is no one central goal of vaccines beyond "do more help than harm". At the very least, we should have a goal of trying to reduce spreading as mathematically decreasing the R value is how pandemics end. That is also how vaccines have historically been understood from a PR standpoint and if you look up a Youtube about vaccines from before COVID from any reputable science channel, you will notice that they focus on preventing spread rather than keeping you out of the hospital.   If a vaccine doesn't reduce spread but does protect individuals does that mean it is a failure? Not at all. But if you see a wave of PR claiming that "well actually it isn't supposed to protect you in those other ways that we've claimed is the primary purpose of other vaccines" then something doesn't smell right. After all, how well has that Measles vaccine kept you out of the hospital? For most people the answer is "I don't know, because hardly anyone gets Measles anymore thanks to vaccines".  The real truth is that COVID is different enough from a disease like Measles that the vaccines don't work as well but still work well enough to be medical miracles. Unfortunately, many medical communicators don't want to try to communicate that complex message truthfully so have resorted to lying that we never cared about preventing infections or spread.
232	Agreement	This whole thing is so weird, the FDA basically said they'd approve this without seeing the data and begged Pfizer to submit after Pfizer said it wasn't effective.  Then Pfizer has to tell the FDA no.  Bizarre.
617	Agreement	And they didn't even get the mRNA vax. HK-13 whole virion vaccine, which is Sinovac or like Sinovac? Can't find generic name.
54	Neutral	Because once your immune system is prepared it will fight the disease immediately (often you won't even know you got it), but when you infuse lab produced antibodies (e.g. mentioned sotrovimab) it already has been a while, and virus could cause damage. Since this submission is about myocarditis, the damage could happen even when you were asymptomatic.
247	Agreement	We've been told for some time that "unvaccinated skews previously infected" is the reason for apparent negative efficacy in the UK (for instance) -- if true it seems like this would confound results considerably.
914	Agreement	Vaccine effectiveness studies have conclusively demonstrated the benefit of COVID-19 vaccines in reducing individual symptomatic and severe disease, resulting in reduced hospitalisations and intensive care unit admissions.   However, the impact of vaccination on transmissibility of SARS-CoV-2 needs to be elucidated. A prospective cohort study in the UK by Anika Singanayagam and colleagues regarding community transmission of SARS-CoV-2 among unvaccinated and vaccinated individuals provides important information that needs to be considered in reassessing vaccination policies. This study showed that the impact of vaccination on community transmission of circulating variants of SARS-CoV-2 appeared to be not significantly different from the impact among unvaccinated people.  The scientific rationale for mandatory vaccination in the USA relies on the premise that vaccination prevents transmission to others, resulting in a “pandemic of the unvaccinated”.  Yet, the demonstration of COVID-19 breakthrough infections among fully vaccinated health-care workers (HCW) in Israel, who in turn may transmit this infection to their patients, requires a reassessment of compulsory vaccination policies leading to the job dismissal of unvaccinated HCW in the USA. Indeed, there is growing evidence that peak viral titres in the upper airways of the lungs and culturable virus are similar in vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals.  A recent investigation by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of an outbreak of COVID-19 in a prison in Texas showed the equal presence of infectious virus in the nasopharynx of vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals.  Similarly, researchers in California observed no major differences between vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals in terms of SARS-CoV-2 viral loads in the nasopharynx, even in those with proven asymptomatic infection.  Thus, the current evidence suggests that current mandatory vaccination policies might need to be reconsidered, and that vaccination status should not replace mitigation practices such as mask wearing, physical distancing, and contact-tracing investigations, even within highly vaccinated populations.
710	Agreement	I thought the recommendation against J&J came from both the adverse events *and* the significantly lowered efficacy  > Protection against severe disease is the equalizer now, and J&J has always held up very well comparatively.  Has it? Do you have a source?  I have been looking for hospitalization protection against Omicron for the three vaccines but I doubt there’s much data. I mean, how many people have gotten a single J&J dose and not any booster? Probably not many.
815	Agreement	Researchers said these poor results are likely due to antigenic imprinting(OAS) and even in this post some people are denying it. There were a lot of evidence regarding imprinting since the beginning of Omicron. Please do not deny imprinting due to it’s association with anti-vaxxers. I’m sure in this sub everybody knows actual infection causes worse imprinting. Also vaccinated but not infected people can use vaccines that produces mucosal immunity. To counter this imprinting problem we need solutions like Paxlovid, Omicron specific mAbs etc… as soon as possible.   “The observation that boosting with either mRNA-1273 or mRNA-Omicron resulted in the expansion of a similarly high frequency of cross-reactive B cells **likely** stems from the principle of **original antigenic sin**, otherwise termed antigenic imprinting, whereby prior immune memory is recalled by a related antigenic encounter (Davenport and Hennessy, 1957; Davenport et al.,1953). “
24	Agreement	>#Conclusion >It is important to recognize that some of the factors fueling vaccine hesitancy, such as anxieties around the pace of technological change or feelings of political disempowerment, are not within the control of the medical community. As the example of health and media literacy initiatives in schools suggests, addressing such issues will require a long-term effort on the part of multiple stakeholders working across several sectors of society43. Like the virus that gave rise to them, it seems probable that myths and conspiracy theories around COVID-19 and vaccines will be things that we all need to learn to live with and manage for some time to come. In this new landscape, the best measure of progress toward building vaccine confidence for the longer term is perhaps not the number of doses administered so far, but public trust in the institutions responsible for delivering them.
337	Agreement	>43.7% and vaccine efficacy was 37.5%  I presume that this is VE against infection. Isn't the "standard" 50%? Granted in some years the influenza vaccine doesn't reach 50% efficacy but I am curious if anyone knows what minimum VE regulators consider acceptable.
571	Agreement	>NEW YORK and MAINZ, GERMANY, MARCH 15, 2022 — Pfizer Inc. (NYSE: PFE) and BioNTech SE (Nasdaq: BNTX) today announced the companies have submitted an application to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) of an additional booster dose adults 65 years of age and older who have received an initial booster of any of the authorized or approved COVID-19 vaccines. The submission is based on two real-world data sets from Israel analyzed at a time when the Omicron variant was widely circulating. Both data sets showed evidence that an additional mRNA booster increases immunogenicity and lowers rates of confirmed infections and severe illness.   >An analysis of Israeli Ministry of Health records was conducted for over 1.1 million adults 60 years of age and older who had no known history of SARS-CoV-2 infection and were eligible for an additional (fourth dose) booster. These data showed rates of confirmed infections were 2 times lower and rates of severe illness were 4 times lower among individuals who received an additional booster dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine administered at least four months after an initial booster (third) dose compared to those who received only one booster dose.  >Also included in the submission are results from an ongoing, open-label, non-randomized clinical trial in healthcare workers 18 years of age and older at a single study center in Israel who had been vaccinated with three doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine. Among the 154 (out of 700) participants who received an additional booster (fourth) dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine at least four months following the initial booster, neutralizing antibody titers increased approximately 7-fold to 8-fold at two and three weeks after the additional booster (fourth) dose compared to five months after the initial booster (third) dose. Additionally, there was an 8-fold and 10-fold increase in neutralizing antibody titers against the Omicron variant (B.1.1.529) at one and two weeks after the additional booster dose, respectively, compared to five months after the initial booster. The study also revealed no new safety concerns in individuals who received an additional booster dose of the vaccine.  >Emerging evidence, including data from Kaiser Permanente Southern California, suggests that effectiveness against both symptomatic COVID-19 1,2,3,4,5 and severe disease1,5 caused by Omicron wanes 3 to 6 months after receipt of an initial booster (third) dose. Thus, additional booster doses may be needed to ensure individuals remain adequately protected. These early studies indicate that  an additional booster dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine administered at least 4 months after an initial booster dose could restore antibody titers to peak post-third dose titer levels,6 improve protection against both infection and severe disease in individuals 60 years of age and older in Israel,7  and have a similar safety profile to that of previous doses.6  These data were not included in the EUA filing submission being reviewed by the FDA.
812	Agreement	Really interesting paper from authors with major roles on advisory committees and public health. This is an important and comprehensive dataset that will absolutely be used to further inform public policy in the UK and abroad.   The main take home:   "the risk following COVID-19 vaccination was largely restricted to younger males aged less than 40 years, where the risks of myocarditis following vaccination and infection were similar.  However, the notable exception was that in younger males receiving a second dose of mRNA-1273 vaccine, the risk of myocarditis was higher following vaccination than infection, with an additional 101 events estimated following a second dose of mRNA-1273 vaccine compared to 7 events following a positive SARS-CoV-2 test.   i.e  The second dose of "full strength" Moderna in males 13-40 gives a spike in myocarditis that is markedly higher than the risk of myocarditis from covid infection.   There weren't enough cases of myocarditis from this very comprehensive dataset to properly assess myocarditis in children aged 13-17, so as the authors state, this now needs to be pursued by pooling international datasets, and I expect they are already pursuing that.   Very interesting data, thanks for posting.   As I stated elsewhere, this is one piece of the public health puzzle. There are obviously a number of risks and benefits that all feed into the recommendations made. But all else being equal, this data could certainly affect recommendations for Moderna vs other vaccine options in males under 40. Watching with interest, thanks for posting OP!
482	Disagreement	Thank you. Sorry I could have done that. Not enough coffee this morning.   My internal bias being an American is that the unvaccinated would be more free with their behavior but probably different in Sweden.
114	Agreement	If they pre boost neutralization titres are at 6 months post primary, that's not that unusual. The adenoviral vaccines don't wane as fast as the Pfizer vaccine.
169	Agreement	Saw a cited post before saying around 800 people
763	Agreement	It’s plausible and seems like the best explanation but it’s still a somewhat shocking result. If you apply a behavioral adjustment that’s large enough to offset -75% VE, even assuming the true VE was zero, then applying that same behavioral adjustment to the previous intervals would make them very very high efficacy, higher than we’ve seen from other studies involving Omicron. It seems like the author’s theory of very rapid spread in those who just happen to be vaccinated a while ago might explain though, why the behavioral adjustment wouldn’t be constant across timescales.
363	Agreement	Given the data for 6mo-2year appears "adequate" why not review that? Is Pfizer not asking them to and hence the FDA isn't proactively doing it? Or maybe the subset isn't statistically valid and they'd need more data?
698	Agreement	I know when the J&J vaccine came out doctors were pointing out that the vaccine is effective at preventing serious disease.  Some people were taking that to mean that there was no point taking a vaccine if you were going to get sick anyway.  It is significantly less likely though for people who have taken a vaccine to die from COVID.  Don't forget that people can also die from the flu.  In that sense, yes, COVID19 is similar to the flu.
731	Agreement	If we were only fighting the risk of myocarditis then yes. Overall though there are so many other potential and more likely negative outcomes for either group that if weighted are potentially worse.
544	Agreement	> I’m sure in this sub everybody knows actual infection causes worse imprinting.  Got any references I can read?
26	Neutral	>The Omicron SARS-CoV-2 variant predominated in the U.S. during the KidCOVE study in these younger age groups. The secondary endpoint of vaccine efficacy confirms statistically significant, but lower efficacy against COVID-19 infection as expected during the Omicron wave and consistent with adult observational data. Using the Phase 3 COVE study COVID-19 definition, **vaccine efficacy in children 6 months to 2 years was 43.7% and vaccine efficacy was 37.5% in the 2 to under 6 years age group**. In this case, statistically significant is defined as a lower bound on the 95% confidence interval which is greater than 0. The majority of cases were mild, and no severe COVID-19 disease was observed in either age group. The absence of any severe disease, hospitalization or death in the study precludes the assessment of vaccine efficacy against these endpoints.  &#x200B;  This is best case scenario since we know the efficacy will wane further from here.
290	Disagreement	I seem to recall some sources advising young males against strenous exercise for a period after either an mRNA vaccine or a Covid-19 infection on the off chance that the develop heart inflammation from either one. Given how rare each of those are, isn't the sample size used in this study seems (16-28 participants at different stages) a bit small to determine if exercise woulds exacerbate that condition?
198	Neutral	The advice given in Germany is a few days to a week depending on how you feel. Some come back quickly and will exercise normally within two days.  This paper says just 50mins which is about the time for it to start kicking in.
12	Agreement	> Findings like this aren't immediately grouped as "good" or "bad". They just "are".   Um, the headline says "without an increase in side effects" -- unfortunately right now findings are very much grouped into "good" and "bad". The reluctance to consider anything to do with side effects as valid is potentially pretty dangerous in this case.
989	Disagreement	One of my largest complaints of many of the COVID studies I’ve seen coming out. The media can pull out headlines based off these extremely poor studies and just spread misinformation so quickly. Feels like you can’t figure out what is true nowadays without reading the study fully yourself which I’ve come to resort to nowadays, and it is maddening how dense some of them can be. More quantitative analysis, please.
629	Agreement	because of the antigenic change and vaccine evasion, I assume that as a layperson I find a hard time to understand all that stuff in a simple manner.
234	Agreement	To get the ball rolling for the review process so they have the data? It’s a rolling submission so now they can review as 3rd dose data comes in, as opposed to waiting for all the data and reviewing it then which would take longer
735	Agreement	In summary, NDV is an underperforming vaccine.  The title is misguiding readers to interpret that this inactivated vaccine is far better than Comirnaty, in fact it is totally opposite.    Ratio makes no sense in selling a vaccine advantage based on the importance of S protein targeting.  Comirnaty has way higher antibody levels in terms of both neutralizing and non neutralizing ones.   Based on all the data provided this vaccine is totally outperformed by mRNA vaccine. As the log scales used in this figure,  Comirnaty in general performs around 10 fold better in terms of binding and neutralizing activity in nearly all tests.  They should have also used CoronaVac as a control to compare the difference in performance under the same platform.
656	Agreement	Does this account for the possibility that vaccinated people test more than the unvaccinated, or vice versa?
243	Agreement	Vaers is fine if you consider the data source. It’s a large pool of largely self reported illness and injuries. It’s intentionally inclusive to ensure they can identify trends early, it’s actually how we found this issue to begin with. You can filter out a lot of the BS without too much difficulty.
277	Agreement	You would want to also want to check this for the vaccinated group -- in most places that aren't Europe there is no acknowledgement of convalescent immunity whatsoever, so not necessarily any reason to assume that the proportion of previously infected is even greater in the unvaccinated group.
78	Agreement	Does this mean Boy A likely had ADHD and was being prescribed medication to treat it? Amphetamine have well documented and side effects and I’m not sure I see how that would have an impact, but if it does, does this mean we should have medical exemptions for those taking medication for ADHD?
917	Agreement	Was it intentional that the selection pressure from vaccines would create a more infectious and less severe variant, or was it just lucky? I don’t think this paper says anything about the possible benefits of selection pressure in creating less sever variants, and I would imagine it’s still very possible that selection pressure in general can create more infectious AND more sever variants.
699	Agreement	I know, that’s why I said it wasn’t your fault. Misleading title at publishing.
445	Disagreement	Essentially yes, this is a manifestation of OAS
595	Neutral	Abstract  Importance: There is limited evidence on the effectiveness of the BNT162b2 vaccine for children, particularly those 5-11 years and after the Omicron variant's emergence. Objective: To estimate BNT162b2 vaccine effectiveness against COVID cases and hospitalizations among children 5-11 years and 12-17 years during December, 2021 and January, 2022. Design: Analyses of cohorts constructed from linked statewide immunization, laboratory testing, and hospitalization databases. Setting/Participants: New York State children 5-17 years. Main outcomes/measures: New laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations. Comparisons were made using the incidence rate ratio (IRR), comparing outcomes by vaccination status, and estimated vaccine effectiveness (VE: 1-[1/IRR]). Results: From December 13, 2021 to January 30, 2022, among 852,384 fully-vaccinated children 12-17 years and 365,502 children 5-11 years, VE against cases declined from 66% (95% CI: 64%, 67%) to 51% (95% CI: 48%, 54%) for those 12-17 years and from 68% (95% CI: 63%, 72%) to 12% (95% CI: 6%, 16%) for those 5-11 years. During the January 24-30 week, VE for children 11 years was 11% (95%CI -3%, 23%) and for those age 12 was 67% (95% CI: 62%, 71%). VE against hospitalization declined changed from 85% (95% CI: 63%, 95%) to 73% (95% CI: 53%, 87%) for children 12-17 years, and from 100% (95% CI: -189%, 100%) to 48% (95% CI: -12%, 75%) for those 5-11 years. Among children newly fully-vaccinated December 13, 2021 to January 2, 2022, VE against cases within two weeks of full vaccination for children 12-17 years was 76% (95% CI: 71%, 81%) and by 28-34 days it was 56% (95% CI: 43%, 63%). For children 5-11, VE against cases declined from 65% (95% CI: 62%, 68%) to 12% (95% CI: 8%, 16%) by 28-34 days. Conclusions and Relevance: In the Omicron era, the effectiveness against cases of BNT162b2 declined rapidly for children, particularly those 5-11 years. However, vaccination of children 5-11 years was protective against severe disease and is recommended. These results highlight the potential need to study alternative vaccine dosing for children and the continued importance layered protections, including mask wearing, to prevent infection and transmission.
68	Agreement	Do we have a window for benefits? Within an hour? Week?
90	Neutral	Here in BC, Canada we spaced them by >2 months due to vaccine availability.   Not protecting from omicron as far as I can see.
394	Agreement	So two doses seems to be enough. No real need for third
155	Agreement	One possible factor: the unvaccinated cohort would’ve surely been more likely to have had a recent prior infection than the vaccinated cohort (due to the protective effect of vaccination in previous months).  Individuals in the study were matched based on documented prior infection status, but of course not all infections end up being confirmed. So I don’t think prior infection will have been fully controlled for.  In the UK for example, the weekly random PCR sampling done by the ONS suggests that around 50% of infections were missed between June 2021 - Jan 2022 (if you assume PCR positivity lasts 14 days on average). In the US, the CDC has previously estimated that 75% of infections were missed between Feb 2020 - September 2021.
674	Agreement	Has anybody looked at other basic mechanical parameters such as exercise activity post vaccinations? I know Singapore recommends men under 30 don’t engage in vigorous activity for two weeks after an mRNA shot. I can’t find any hard data on this but if hypothetically that explains 95% of the myocarditis cases then sounds like we have a very easy solution.
418	Agreement	What if your only symptom is myocarditis?
300	Disagreement	It's reasonable to assume there might be confounding factors, but how can we be so sure they completely explain away the negative VE? Shouldn't it remain an open possibility?
727	Agreement	I’m not too great in the math department. Could somebody calculate a rough vaccine efficacy for fully vaccinated and boosted from these numbers? Or is there not enough info? I’d be much obliged, thanks!
200	Agreement	The delta adjusted vaccine wasn't commercialised because the existing MRNA vaccines were satisfactory against delta, with boosters providing immunity against symptomatic illness in large majority of cases.
511	Agreement	"Despite the reports of postvaccination MIS-C, vaccination clearly lowers the overall MIS-C burden, probably by preventing infection. These studies also suggest low likelihood of vaccination triggering development of MIS-C.  If vaccination can play a role in MIS-C pathogenesis, it is likely an extremely rare event and may involve an underlying genetic predisposition or be contingent on extraneous factors like recent SARS-CoV-2 community exposure. Our findings in 2 cases of MIS-C within 1 week of a dose of BNT162b2 raise the possibility that vaccination may alter the symptom profile of MIS-C."
40	Agreement	AND it assumes people are "young and healthy".  So that headline excludes a lot of people....  >Gili Regev-Yochay, a physician and infectious-diseases researcher at    Sheba Medical Center in Ramat Gan, who co-authored the study. But    “people who are young and healthy and don’t have risk factors will    probably not benefit much from a fourth dose” when faced with Omicron,    she says   >   >   >   >Still, she and others say the fourth dose    could be beneficial for people at higher risk of severe illness.    Several countries, including Israel, Chile and Sweden, are offering    fourth doses to older adults and other groups.
207	Neutral	The problem is that Covid has not been evolving in a linear fashion. Delta was not a descendant of Alpha, and Omicron was not a descendant of Delta, so we aren't confident that the next dominant variant will necessarily be a descendant of Omicron. In contrast, we can update flu vaccines and roll them out ahead of time because flu evolution is linear and we can predict the next dominant variant from the current dominant variant (usually).
531	Neutral	> Our analysis shows that unvaccinated patients with a COVID-19 infection are nearly five times more likely to develop GBS than COVID-vaccinated patients, with a rate of 28 per million for COVID-vaccinated patients, and 130 per million for unvaccinated, COVID-positive patients.
944	Agreement	Wouldn’t an Omicron boost be required 4-16 weeks post priming to trigger b-cells undergoing affinity maturation to transform into plasma b-cells and subsequently generate omicron specific antibodies?
447	Disagreement	I don't actually see any information on what phase it is. Possibly they will look for neutralising antibodies rather than effectiveness, as they did with the children's trial iirc.
483	Disagreement	Thanks that was a lot haha. I’m a bit confused though. I have read that a fourth dose of mRNA vaccines will likely be recommended and that further doses will probably be tailored to the dominant variant as it changes over time (like the flu I suppose). Doesn’t this contradict this article somewhat?
526	Neutral	**Abstract**   There are concerns that the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant evades immune responses due to unusually high numbers of mutations on the spike protein. Here we report a super-spreading event of Omicron infections amongst triple-vaccinated healthcare workers, infecting 21 of 33 attending a private gathering in the Faroe Islands.      _____ Additional clarification from the PDF:   _____ The Faroe Islands, a self-governing group of islands located between Iceland and Norway, have been relatively successful in containing the COVID-19 pandemic [7,8]. **On December 30, 2020, the first Faroese received the BNT162b2 vaccine (Comirnaty; BioNTech, Mainz, Germany), the only vaccine used in the Faroe Islands**, and since a high proportion of the population has been vaccinated. As of December 8, 74.6% of the population has been vaccinated two times, and 13.6% three times [9]. From March 2020 to September 2021, the Faroe Islands had registered only 1,001 cases of COVID-19 (1,867 per 100,000) and two deaths (3.73 per 100,000). However, after loosening restrictions and the introduction of the more contagious Delta variant, a large outbreak has plagued the islands, with more than 3.300 cases and 11 deaths registered during the last two and a half months [9].  **This paper reports a super-spreading event where 21 of 33 healthcare workers were infected with the Omicron variant after attending a social gathering in early December 2021, even though all infected participants had been vaccinated three times and had a recent negative test.**
769	Agreement	Just to be clear. When they say 85% effective against hospitalization, what is that in comparison to? What's the regular hospitalization rate for an unvaxxed person?
636	Agreement	But if VOCs are theorised to emerge from chronic infections in immunosuppressed patients (since they have emerged without clear predecessors), I'm not sure how much vaccination rates really will impact emergence of VOCs
268	Agreement	Yes I do think they’re on an agenda.  They wouldn’t be the first and won’t be the last.
371	Agreement	I think due multiple reasons:   * USA seems already has 'enough' approved vaccine, may not need another 'good enough'    * 2 fully approved (Pfizer, Moderna) in adults.       * And other younger age groups in EUA, etc    * 1 EUA - J&J    * And 2 other is coming in a way:        * Novavax (seems soon get the EUA)       * and Medicago (may far in the future)  * All vaccine are safe and effective, but the Covaxin data's may less full / promising is some aspects     * WHO documents like this one ["Interim recommendations for use of the Bharat Biotech BBV152 COVAXIN® vaccine against COVID-19"](https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/WHO-2019-nCoV-vaccines-SAGE-recommendation-bbv152-covaxin) and [annexes](https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/WHO-2019-nCoV-vaccines-SAGE-recommendation-bbv152-covaxin-annexes) for that has some points, like:        * *Safety - Adults (aged 18–59 years) - Limitation in study design - Impact: Serious*       * *Efficacy - Older adults (aged ≥60 years) - "We are moderately confident that 2 doses of BBV152 vaccine are efficacious in preventing PCR-confirmed COVID-19 in older adults (≥65 years)."*       * And its has not just a few points like that's.    * So, at general in 60+ age groups, comorbidity, etc. data's is 'moderate confident', CI values seem in very wide limits, etc.    * Its may also miss some FDA important points, like: not well (if not at all) tested on latinos, inuits, etc.          * May its (existing) data, certifications on manufacturing, etc. not enough to pass thru FDA process
916	Agreement	Wait if the CI is between -43 and 43, shouldn't the efficacy be 0? Not that it really means a lot, that's a *very* big interval.
679	Agreement	How did you get this opinion from the study?
838	Agreement	So, this means this variant is indeed worse than Delta?
968	Disagreement	>Why do these papers keep talking about viral load and ignore the fact that the majority of viral load is dead, non-infectious virus.  Because that’s what most studies do. And this is a review paper, so the whole point is to summarize what people have done.   It’s a lot more labor intensive to try to culture virus and it’s better to have some data than none. While viral load data isn’t perfect, it was a useful warning sign that delta was more infectious in vaccinated people than previous strains had been.
560	Agreement	>(Also, I thought VAERS reports not worth paying attention to... did thus view change recently?)  It did not.
843	Agreement	Study was conducted January-August 2021, so we’re talking alpha strain for the breakthrough infections. Likely to be higher for delta and omicron.
569	Agreement	>Interesting that the study had over 36,000 genomic sequences for patients in the analysis (over 90% of total patients). And the rest that couldn't get sequenced in time for analysis were assumed Omicron through S-gene target failure.  Houston Methodist has been sequencing 100% of COVID patients for a while now.   That said, at this point the chances of an SGTF not being Omicron is slim-to-none, so I don't imagine the full sequencing is really required to yield good data.
294	Disagreement	I'm not seeing that they attempted differentiation on severity between vaccinated/previously infected and unvaccinated/previously uninfected.  To me that's the biggest tell on when a pandemic, that is now endemic, is waning: Many infections still happening, but many fewer ever needing a hospital.     If there is no severity difference between vaccinated/pre infected infections and unvaccinated/never previously infected - basically like catching a novel virus all over again - that is concerning.
879	Agreement	The western world is not South Africa. You all spend countless hours in these threads debating technical details of these studies when what matters most from a US POV is we are a much larger country with a far older, more unhealthy population. These studies mean next to nothing. South Africa was never going to be indicative of the US experience with this variant and it is reckless and naive the way the scientific community and media latched on to this idea.  edit:   As I mentioned below:  US 65+ pop. = ~55mm   US 65+ pop. = ~80% of total Covid deaths.   SA 65+ pop. ~3.5mm…   get the picture?
110	Agreement	I've asked how many people under 18 have died of covid in the last year and a 1/2?  I can't find good statistics.
149	Agreement	Noteworthy, is that there appears to be little protection from any variant for those last vaxxed over 6 month ago, while a big boost from booster over even those recently vaxxed.  Perhaps a slight edge for moderna as a booster.
100	Agreement	I think from the paper that 2x az plus one mrna provides excelent results / titers.
382	Agreement	If someone could ELI5 this, how could boosting with the same vaccine would elicit broader response/cross-reactivity knowing that the same original antigen is presented to the immune system? I would expect that a dramatic (albeit temporary) increase in titers would help, but not induce a broader response.
346	Agreement	Are these sample sizes adequate? Seem a little small to me, but I'm a layman so I don't know. At least they could easily find more volunteers, I imagine.
135	Agreement	It's an autopsy paper written by MDs, this is typical for this type of publication.
545	Agreement	> If Omicron displaces delta completely such that risk of Delta infection is removed, is it a possibility that boosting with the wuhan variant spike after an Omicron breakthrough is counter productive because you'd already be producing Omicron specific antibodies?  No, that seems very unlikely.  Each time your adaptive immune system sees a similar antigen, after some time has passed since the last time it saw it, that causes it to broaden its repertoire of memory B cells, to produce antibodies that can cover a wider range of close variants.  This is why, for example, we're finding that people who got a booster have antibodies that are more effective against omicron than those who didn't get a booster - even though their booster was based on the same Wuhan strain as the initial vaccination.  Being presented with the antigen again does not make the adaptive system "narrow its focus", as it seems you fear.  It makes it broaden, against more possible future variations.
245	Agreement	wan't this suggested being because of the interval between doses?
136	Agreement	It's definitely a bad way, but the best we have.  I don't have a link, but I remember seeing one paper analysing VAERS reports and finding while some are questionable, the large majority is real.  And likely some cases aren't reported.  So I generally assume that while it's not completely reliable, it's in the right ballpark.    Unfortunately too many people think along the lines that because VAERS has many faults, it should be ignored.  That's faulty thinking, just as thinking correlation implies causation is faulty.
591	Neutral	Abstract  >Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) antibodies decay but persist 6 months postvaccination; lower levels of neutralizing titers persist against Delta than wild-type virus. Of 227 vaccinated healthcare workers tested, only 2 experienced outpatient symptomatic breakthrough infections, despite 59/227 exhibiting serologic evidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection, defined as presence of nucleocapsid protein antibodies.
159	Agreement	Per the press release how does it have both 100% efficacy AND. 75% efficacy against severe disease.
460	Disagreement	Isn't the advice to move one's arm frequently after being injected with a vaccine such as for influenza or COVID-19?  It seems to me the tested exercises at least moved the injected arm quite a bit?
369	Agreement	I has 2x AZ and 1y BNT... This probably doesn't apply to this combination - but AZ isn't  discussed in papers anyways any more.
839	Agreement	So? The flair makes it clear that it's a preprint. Preprints are posted here routinely and many report high quality research (although this one unfortunately doesn't). And conversely, peer review doesn't guarantee high quality.
885	Agreement	There's also suggestions that those who were infected in the healthcare setting are most prone to long covid
367	Agreement	I didn’t realize there was a risk of this from covid , so they are saying you could get it from covid itself or the vaccine?
406	Agreement	They did it for the Beta and Delta variants in 2021, and nature defeated Beta and then eventually Delta variant much quicker than Pfizer and BioNTech scientists. I don't think any new research of Omicron would be in time before the next mutation occurs.
947	Agreement	Wow. The authors don't even take a break to consider non breakthrough infections. The authors of the story seem to be inferring transmissibility of the vaccinated based only on breakthrough infections. The authors have completely ignored the people that is vaccinated and never test positive... IE the majority, according with vaccine efficacy trials.  This paper is absolute antivax garbage. The great lie of considering breakthrough vaccinations as if they were all the vaccinated population has reached maximum saturation.
426	Disagreement	"Cohort #3 (n=205): Vaccine-naïve participants will receive three doses of the Omicron-based vaccine."  Where are they going to find people who are vaccine-naïve in 2022 who are willing to partake in scientific research?
928	Agreement	What does over vaccinated mean, and how does selection pressure in them differ from regular vaccination?
912	Agreement	Vaccinated have almost half the rate of controls? I could see something like lower prevalence of infectious diseases implicated in GBS compared to 2019, but isn't 48 also a really high baseline? I thought it was much rarer than that.
866	Agreement	The inhibition numbers look phenomenal, much better than the adult 2 series (https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.12.23.21267374v1.full.pdf+html), especially for omicron. So there is something to their better than others omicron results maybe.
942	Agreement	Worse case 105 myocarditis cases based on a million jabs. Not even as bad as the incidence from fungal infections, viruses or parasites. It's very, very, very minor.
51	Agreement	At which point do you think we will have enough empirical information to treat future variants like we do with the flu? E.g. development of vaccines well in advance of flu season.
344	Agreement	And that was assuming it prevented some death/hospitalizations I'm pretty sure. In this case, they can't even show 0.1% protection against those. Additionally, the risk of infection is now much lower simply because the virus is in a lull. And we know that that protection will likely wane a lot over 6 months. So we're probably talking about a 20% average protection over a minimum 6 months before they can get a booster during the summer.   If it takes 200k shots to children to prevent 300 cold-like infections, it seems unlikely to get approval.
187	Agreement	Thanks for the summary! Much appreciated!
816	Agreement	Results  Participants with detectable SARS-CoV-2–specific antibodies in their milk at baseline (n = 9 for IgA and n = 3 for IgG) or a previous positive polymerase chain reaction test (n = 7) were excluded from further analyses, thus, a total of 1650 human milk samples from 124 lactating mothers were included in the final analysis. Figure, A shows the percentage of participants with detectable IgA during the study period. Almost all participants who received an mRNA-based vaccine showed detectable IgA in their milk, with 25 of 26 (96%) and 37 of 38 (97%) after the BNT162b2 and MRNA-1273 vaccines, respectively. For participants who received a vector-based vaccine, this was remarkably lower, as only 13 of 33 (39%) and 10 of 21 (48%) showed detectable IgA after the AZD1222 and Ad26.COV2.S vaccines, respectively. The percentage of participants with detectable IgG during the study period is depicted in Figure, B. After both doses of BNT162b2, MRNA-1273, and AZD1222 vaccines, all participants showed detectable IgG. However, after the mRNA-based vaccines, this was on day 23 and day 32 after the first dose, while after the AZD1222 vaccine, all participants showed IgG at day 94. After vaccination with Ad26.COV2.S, which is only 1 dose, 6 of 23 (28%) participants had detectable IgG in their milk.   Discussion  We demonstrated that SARS-CoV-2–specific IgA in human milk was present more frequently after vaccination with an mRNA-based vaccine compared with a vector-based vaccine. Additionally, IgG was present in all participants after receiving 2 vaccine doses, independent of vaccine type. However, IgG was detectable earlier after vaccination with either of the mRNA vaccines, which can be explained by timing of the second dose. A limitation of this study is that we did not measure neutralizing capacity of the human milk antibodies.  The most abundant antibody in human milk is IgA, which plays a key role in the first line of defense against invading viruses.5 Although, to our knowledge, no studies have shown indisputable evidence that human-milk IgA directly protects against respiratory tract infections, it is very likely that this antibody plays a critical role. Based on these data, we suggest that an mRNA-based vaccine is the optimal choice for lactating women when they want to transfer antibodies to their infants.
785	Agreement	not fair worse. more likely to test positive realtive to the unvaccinated.  Outcomes not so
530	Neutral	#Abstract   **BACKGROUND**  The duration and effectiveness of immunity from infection with and vaccination against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) are relevant to pandemic policy interventions, including the timing of vaccine boosters.  **METHODS**  We investigated the duration and effectiveness of immunity in a prospective cohort of asymptomatic health care workers in the United Kingdom who underwent routine polymerase-chain-reaction (PCR) testing. Vaccine effectiveness (≤10 months after the first dose of vaccine) and infection-acquired immunity were assessed by comparing the time to PCR-confirmed infection in vaccinated persons with that in unvaccinated persons, stratified according to previous infection status. We used a Cox regression model with adjustment for previous SARS-CoV-2 infection status, vaccine type and dosing interval, demographic characteristics, and workplace exposure to SARS-CoV-2.  **RESULTS**  Of 35,768 participants, 27% (9488) had a previous SARS-CoV-2 infection. Vaccine coverage was high: 97% of the participants had received two doses (78% had received BNT162b2 vaccine [Pfizer–BioNTech] with a long interval between doses, 9% BNT162b2 vaccine with a short interval between doses, and 8% ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine [AstraZeneca]). Between December 7, 2020, and September 21, 2021, a total of 2747 primary infections and 210 reinfections were observed. Among previously uninfected participants who received long-interval BNT162b2 vaccine, adjusted vaccine effectiveness decreased from 85% (95% confidence interval [CI], 72 to 92) 14 to 73 days after the second dose to 51% (95% CI, 22 to 69) at a median of 201 days (interquartile range, 197 to 205) after the second dose; this effectiveness did not differ significantly between the long-interval and short-interval BNT162b2 vaccine recipients. At 14 to 73 days after the second dose, adjusted vaccine effectiveness among ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine recipients was 58% (95% CI, 23 to 77) — considerably lower than that among BNT162b2 vaccine recipients. Infection-acquired immunity waned after 1 year in unvaccinated participants but remained consistently higher than 90% in those who were subsequently vaccinated, even in persons infected more than 18 months previously.  **CONCLUSIONS**  Two doses of BNT162b2 vaccine were associated with high short-term protection against SARS-CoV-2 infection; this protection waned considerably after 6 months. Infection-acquired immunity boosted with vaccination remained high more than 1 year after infection.
185	Agreement	Thank you. I did know that they applied for full approval. Do you have any ide what the typical timeline for that is?
643	Agreement	Controls are from before the pandemic, to completely eliminate COVID-19 vaccines *and* virus as a factor:  > This cohort includes patients aged 0-99 with at least one office visit encounter from January 1, 2019, to June 30, 2019. The cohort inclusion date is the earliest office visit for the patient during those dates. Any patients who have documentation of an excluding condition or have documentation of Guillain-Barré prior to the inclusion date are removed from the cohort  It seems likely to me that the lower rate in vaccinated patients is due to NPIs (masking, distancing, etc.) reducing their exposure to other viruses that might cause GBS.  Despite the association some people mentally have between vaccines and GBS, viral infections are a far more common cause.
479	Disagreement	So this excecise was suppose to increase antibody two weeks after the 90 min lol? Really? Shouldnt this be a study for everyday excercise...
339	Agreement	0-20% effectiveness after 2 doses? So we are back at the beginning of the pandemic?
255	Agreement	Where does it say hospitalized?
818	Agreement	Science was a struggle for you. Wasn’t it.
286	Disagreement	Huh? The study says "Overall, the 30-day incidence of myocarditis \*\*following a COVID-19 diagnosis\*\* was nearly 17 times higher than the incidence among patients receiving the COVID-19 vaccine." I see nothing about hospitalization in there.
678	Agreement	How could this possibly be explained? Does it also mean chances are higher to be infected if you e.g. get a fourth or fifth dose?
778	Agreement	My guess it's the short interval.   >https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-1226339/v1  In this paper they got no improvement in neut. post 2nd dose for the infected, but the 3rd dose had a very good improvement.
830	Agreement	So much for anosmia being the defining feature for mild cases.
551	Agreement	> Remember that SARS-CoV-2 migrates through the body and has affected most organs at one time or another among various cases of covid.  This is one reason the SARS-CoV-2 vaccines are so effective, because the high serum antibody levels help prevent this kind of wide dissemination.  Vaccines in general are really good at preventing this kind of dissemination, as with other highly contagious respiratory viruses that require dissemination through the lymphatic system to cause disease, like measles or varicella (respiratory route infection, but virus disseminates to cause rash and further transmission).    For some respiratory diseases that *don't* require dissemination for disease progression, like RSV or rhinovirus or parainfluenza or metapneumonia, there is no durable immunity, from vaccines or otherwise.   You can keep getting infected repeatedly by these viruses.  SARS-CoV-2 follows a similar paradigm where prior infection or vaccination does *not* prevent infection in the long term, but seems to adequately prevent dissemination and thus severe disease.
876	Agreement	The results were not the same; they were measurably better with the multivalent vaccine.    The WT+beta (211) vaccine had 50% higher neutralization against Delta and Gamma than the WT alone.  50% higher isn't a huge number, but it is about the same effect as you get by doubling the dose.  It's also worth noting that Delta is farther from Beta than it is from wildtype.  The phase 1 trials were supposed to be repeated with the WT+Beta+Delta (213) vaccine, but I have seen no results.  Indeed, the results named above are only from their Q2 report which has since been removed, and were (again to my knowledge) never published (even in medical preprint).
825	Agreement	So far, VOC specific boosters have not proven more effective than another shot of the original based on Wild-type at generating an immune response (Moderna posted their results - seek out their 3rd quarter earning report PDF if interested).      What you're not considering is the maturation of immune response over both time + additional exposure to the original vaccines.     ____   ____   ["Superior immunity that allows neutralization of all SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern develops in COVID-19 convalescents and naïve individuals after three vaccinations"](https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-1226339/v1)   ____   ____   ["Structural basis of Omicron neutralization by affinity-matured public antibodies"](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.01.03.474825v1)   ____   From the latter:   _____   Further, we resolved the structure of CAB-A17 Fab in complex with Omicron spike at an overall resolution of 2.6 Å by cryo-electron microscopy and defined the structural basis for this breadth. **Thus, public SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing antibodies can, without modified spike vaccines, mature to cross-neutralize exceptionally antigenically diverged SARS-CoV-2 variants.**
983	Disagreement	Incorrect. Not only is it not significantly more but only is it more with second (barely) and third doses of Moderna. Myocarditis incidence rate after infection is 73 per million. Moderna third dose was measured at 104 I believe.   I believe there’s also language in the study suggesting that severity of myocarditis is worse in Covid patients but I need to reread through that section more carefully.  On top of all that, this is the ONLY statistically significant potential side effect of the rna vaccines thus far. Myocarditis is not the only potential severe side effect of Covid infection, there is far more.   Measured as a whole, any of the 2-dose vaccines would be better for young males to take than to risk Covid infection. Although where available it may be worth considering other vaxs over Moderna for young males.  EDIT: I needed to check it over more carefully. 73 is the number for infection in older males. 7 being the number in younger males. Those Moderna numbers are for the second dose. My points starting from paragraph 2 still stand except for the fact that we should definitely reconsider using Moderna in younger males where other options (Pfizer, AZ) are available.
180	Disagreement	Sorry, your explanation that it’s just statistical noise does not hold up, because if you look to the right edge of the graph, even the upper range of the confidence interval is intersecting with the y-axis (0).  Additionally, if VE actually went to zero, instead of *past* zero (negative), we would expect the curve to asymptotically approach zero. Instead, the rate of descent is much steadier and straighter.
750	Agreement	It also doesn't seem to take account of reduced severity & duration with vaccinated individuals, leading to a reduced window for infecting others.
227	Agreement	This makes a lot of sense, thanks for the thoughtful response!
929	Agreement	What's the comparison between these sputnik vaccine antibodies concentration against Pfizers or Modernas vaccine?
1	Agreement	“Considering the small effect size of this association and the good prognosis for patients with SSNHL, the potential influence of this condition on public health appears to be relatively minor.”  -from the source article
634	Agreement	boosters do less bad than doubly vaccinated
358	Agreement	Do we have any news about 3rd shots for ages 5-11? Wonder if that'll help bring back more protection.
258	Agreement	Why do so many of these studies ignore the impact of hybrid immunity?
224	Agreement	This is rather the opposite of making a pronouncement. That sentence literally translates as "we don't have enough evidence to make a pronouncement yet".
494	Disagreement	Wait so after two weeks after the booster they find increased risk of symptomatic cases? So boosters are useful only two weeks for this metric...
538	Agreement	> Beyond the lower rates of pneumonia on CT, the clinical course of patients paralleled the chest CT findings: vaccinated patients were much less likely to require supplemental oxygen (odds ratios, **.24**, p=.005 ) and had a lower rate of intensive care unit admission (odds ratio, **.08**, p=.02) than unvaccinated patients.   An odds ratio of 0.08 isn't all that impressive?
411	Agreement	We have to pick our battles. We can’t control this virus, it’s becoming more transmissible to the point where not catching it is becoming very hard. Long covid is a huge issue and something i’m very concerned about but what do we do? We can’t force the world to stay indoors anymore, with mask mandates being dropped and people starting to live like it’s 2019 again, preventing infection seems impossible for the average person in the age of omicron.
696	Agreement	I kinda agree with you. One caveat is that this looked at a time period dominant by Alpha/Delta. Omicron, which is by far the most prevalent variant now, is seemingly much less virulent. Hopefully the likelyhood of "long covid" after Omicron infection will turn out to be significantly less for both groups.      They also didn't (or couldn't) include anyone who had received 3 shots which perhaps provides greater protection against Long Covid than just the primary course of 2 shots w/in a month.
70	Agreement	Do you have any links to studies on sinovac and omicron? I've had a tough time finding anything. I'm triple vaxxed with Sinovac and really freaked out about getting the virus.
973	Disagreement	Do you have a source? Is this T-Cell based? Any data on how long after a booster this seems to work?
907	Agreement	To answer this, I'd need to know the severity of the vaccine-associated myocarditis, the rate of covid reinfection, the rates and severity of myocarditis after reinfection, and the rate and severity of other sequelae following covid reinfection.   Trying to put that whole picture together is what public health recommendations are all about.
7	Agreement	> 3 days ago in this very sub a study was published saying omicron infections were in fact much more mild than delta  The study you linked was looking at viral replication rates, which says nothing about disease severity.  If you're referring to the South African study which showed Omicron had a 29% lower hospitalisation rate than the ancestral strain, it wasn't fully controlled for immunity from prior infection (they specify "documented" infection, and the vast majority of COVID cases go unreported - surveillance in South Africa isn't great).  > However, hospitalization rates in S Africa would in fact suggest ommicron is more mild.  Lower hospitalisation rates aren't necessarily evidence that the Omicron variant itself is less virulent, they're evidence of more mild cases occuring during the current wave. This can also be attributed to higher levels of immunity in the population.  edit: Reading over the study you're referring to again, it actually outright states this:  *“This lesser severity could, however, be confounded by the high seroprevalence levels of SARS CoV-2 antibodies in the general South African population, especially following an extensive Delta wave of infections.”*
661	Agreement	Every cold that exists today is a variant of the virus that existed a year or two before and a year or two before that and so on and so forth.
667	Agreement	For Moderna mainly
56	Neutral	Both boys had pre-existing heart anomalies - myocardial scarring (Boy A) and cardiomegaly (Boy B). Boy A also has a history of amphetamine use.
701	Agreement	I think an equally plausible explanation for what is occurring here is that the Omicron spike is so divergent that it is not able to engage existing B cells particularly well, so merely acts like a "first dose" prime: a second booster may work much better. Note that in the mouse study for that other vaccine, the Omicron-specific one did not engage wild-type trained B cells which would be consistent with this.
381	Agreement	If effective treatment options are available locally (e.g. paxlovid, sotrovimab) why not forego vaccine/booster and instead plan to seek early treatment upon symptomatic infection? especially knowing that you may be one of the many infected that turn out to be asymptomatic  UPDATE: I don’t get why this is being downvoted. If it is because people are taking issue with my last statement, here is the systematic review that concluded about 35% of cases are asymptomatic: [https://www.pnas.org/content/118/34/e2109229118](https://www.pnas.org/content/118/34/e2109229118). I also don’t think it’s controversial to say that those with the first couple vaccine doses contemplating a booster are more likely than that even to have an asymptomatic case. And with Omicron being declared milder there is conjecture that the ratio of asymptomatic cases is higher with it also, but we’ll still have to see if the data bears that piece out.
351	Agreement	Because the curve is probably informed by very few observations at that point, which by chance might have given such unintuitive results.
632	Agreement	Bharat Biotech got approval from Indian regulators for a phase 3 trial last month.
63	Agreement	Curious myself. I imagine that it has something to do with antibody affinity maturation.
216	Agreement	There seem to be two points here:  > Along with previous data showing the superiority of a third dose to a second dose,4 our results suggest that maximal immunogenicity of mRNA vaccines is achieved after three doses and that antibody levels can be restored by a fourth dose.  So, boosting results in an increase of antibody levels--this doesn't seem surprising and I can imagine future studies observing similar results after a 5th, 6th, Nth booster  > Furthermore, we observed low vaccine efficacy against infections in health care workers, as well as relatively high viral loads suggesting that those who were infected were infectious. Thus, a fourth vaccination of healthy young health care workers may have only marginal benefits.   This to me is the more important point. Despite the increase in antibodies, the existing vaccines aren't as efficacious in reducing viral loads. This adds to the existing evidence suggesting that omicron-related strains are better able to evade immune detection. I have to imagine this is due (at least in part) to the current 2022 strains being so diverged from the 2019 strain that was used to make the vaccines.
535	Neutral	> Also a preprint, but I think given the title and abstract there is some misleading going on.  Yes ... I think a lot of people will interpret this as "omicron specific boosters won't induce strong responses against VOC", when the study looks at mice unexposed to COVID before rather than people vaccinated with WT. The response from someone already previously exposed to WT/Delta to an omicron booster won't be the same.
183	Agreement	Sweden did not have much restrictions or none at all. That's why the study was done there, to exclude that correlation as much as possible.
488	Disagreement	These vaccines really don’t prevent transmission very well
654	Agreement	Does anyone know what the timeline is before this goes to human trials?
743	Agreement	Interesting. If memory serves me correctly, Pfizer is 70% effective against Omicron when used as a booster. Perhaps this is a better booster option as we know antibodies continue to rise beyond the timeframe mRNA vaccines begin to fall.
361	Agreement	doesn’t covaxin have the safe & effective pediatric data, which the US-approved vaccines do not yet?
877	Agreement	The study covered the first 6 months after a vaccination dose, so yes that is accounted for, but future monitoring is probably wise.
140	Agreement	It's the acute response that's important. Because fear/stress works too it probably doesn't have much to do with the actual exercise so much as convincing the body it's just been attacked by a lion.
709	Agreement	I thought T-cell immunity was always long lasting, whether it resulted from vaccination or  infection. I haven’t seen any papers published here that noted t-cell immunity was temporary.
452	Disagreement	I think you’re reading a bit too much between the lines. Do you really think the paper is so opinionated? Reads to me like they’re simply reporting results. Haven’t read the whole thing thoroughly though, am I missing something?
76	Agreement	Does the paper ever claim that "the shot helps improve mental health"?
146	Agreement	No one gave you the correct explanation. It’s because the graph is of a cubic spline fitted to observed values. Just look at the table above it instead. 9+ months out has an estimated 23% effectiveness against infection with a wide confidence interval. The below zero line is not actually data or a proper informed model. It’s just a simple smoothing line
420	Agreement	What’s the next big treatment potentially on the horizon?
700	Agreement	I read somewhere else that they have a significantly younger population overall.  That basically any 'common observation' you make about the virus you can't translate to the west because of this difference in age.
707	Agreement	I think you have it mixed up. P=.02 is a MASSIVE risk reduction.
125	Disagreement	It doesn’t. The table shows a drop to 23%. The graph is a smoothing line, not actually data.
16	Neutral	> Our data provide evidence that a fourth dose of mRNA vaccine is immunogenic, safe, and somewhat efficacious (primarily against symptomatic disease). A comparison of the initial response to the fourth dose with the peak response to a third dose did not show substantial differences in humoral response or in levels of omicron-specific neutralizing antibodies. Along with previous data showing the superiority of a third dose to a second dose,4 our results suggest that maximal immunogenicity of mRNA vaccines is achieved after three doses and that antibody levels can be restored by a fourth dose. Furthermore, we observed low vaccine efficacy against infections in health care workers, as well as relatively high viral loads suggesting that those who were infected were infectious. Thus, a fourth vaccination of healthy young health care workers may have only marginal benefits. Older and vulnerable populations were not assessed.
884	Agreement	There needs to be better education and awareness of the long-term risks of infection from varios pathogens. People incorrectly assess the risk of vaccine-induced injury to be greater than that of pathogens. Most people are not aware that viruses can cause autoimmune diseases, and future researchers should be focused on the relationship between viral infections and various comorbidities.
475	Disagreement	Re possible selective pressure towards milder forms.  I’ve seen it argued that by the time you die from covid, the virus is gone, moved on.  So die or live is irrelevant to the virus.  What you die of is the inflammation left behind. An entirely separate second phase.  Suggesting there is no such selective pressure.  Any opinions? Is this a valid argument?
631	Agreement	Beta was a major vaccine evader as well.
413	Agreement	What about recommending non-mRNA vaccines to the young male cohort?
98	Agreement	I find it odd that the neutralization titers for Moderna were lower than Pfizer, but yet the efficacy of Moderna is consistently higher in almost every other study.
974	Disagreement	Doesn’t this jnj study contradict consensus? I got a mRNA booster to my jnj because the consensus and the CDC  told me it’s superior. Looking at this, that’s clearly not the case.
395	Agreement	So why isn't South Africa seeing an uptick in deaths yet?
498	Disagreement	We’re also dealing with more contagious variants as time passes (delta, then omicron).
128	Neutral	It is not clear at all if imprinting is the issue.  No study to date has give sufficient  time for antibody maturation to occur or a boost to trigger plasma b-cell conversion and antibody generation.  The immune system has no problems tracking immune escape in existing [hCoVs](https://journals.plos.org/plospathogens/article?id=10.1371/journal.ppat.1009453) and I would be astounded for SARS-CoV-2 to be any different.
143	Neutral	Moderate intensity activity is not jogging a 10 minute mile for the average American. The average American is overweight or obese. Most Americans probably could not jog a mile without having to take walking breaks, and it certainly wouldn't be a 6mph pace.   Moderate intensity activity for the average American (an obese, middle aged person) is walking.
152	Agreement	Old law that needs to be rethought. If we can protect 6months to 2 years, why aren’t we doing this?
870	Agreement	The nAb data are interesting - Pfizer's vaccine initially edges out J&J's, but binding/neutralizing titers start falling for Pfizer almost immediately. This is consistent with earlier literature demonstrating the same thing ([Differential Kinetics of Immune Responses Elicited by Covid-19 Vaccines - NEJM](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMc2115596)). *Very* potent early humoral immunity, but significant issues with staying power. I don't mind getting boosts routinely to counteract this, but I'm not sure how sustainable that is from a public policy perspective.   Still, I imagine the difference in efficacy between J&J and Pfizer for Omicron is almost certainly related to T cell function. The mRNAs induce a remarkable antibody response, but that's only so useful when the broad majority of those antibodies can't bind to the Omicron RBD. Adenoviral platforms like J&J's, trade off comparably low antibody titers for stronger T cell function, and T cells tend to be more robust to large-scale changes in sequence.
210	Agreement	the speed of omicron(50% of the US infected by end of january probably) means that this will have limited effectiveness.  &#x200B;  The speed of mutations thats happening is incomprehensible and a total guess at what they should be attempting to vaccinate for.  BA2 or whatever seems like the next to explode by march in the northeast of the US.  Would be better if they could go with that.  Who knows what the next variant will be in the South in June of 2022.  Could be BA2.2 or it could be even a newer one(and then winter of 2022??!).
614	Agreement	Am I reading "testicular inoculation" correctly? They stabbed a needle into the testicle and injected SARS-CoV-2 straight into the testicles of hamsters?  What exactly is injecting a virus that normally spreads by respiratory aerosols into the testicles of hamsters supposed to demonstrate? Is testicular inoculation of respiratory viruses a thing that is normally done?
308	Disagreement	Should we have started to be suspicious of variant doses when we first heard that the Delta-specific booster didn't do any better than a third shot of the original? At the time, everyone framed that as "wow og booster so good!" because it was very effective against Delta ... but still wasn't it weird that the Delta-specific one didn't do any better against Delta?
455	Disagreement	I'm confused by your comment. Isn't asymptomatic COVID a "COVID-19-like illness?" And doesn't a positive test typically result with a diagnosis?
62	Agreement	Considering the amount of vaccine hesitancy and anti-vaxxers, it is possible that the risk of VAERS reports being even more coincidental or not accurate is even greater than prior to the pandemic. Some symptoms should not be ignored, but there are many psychosomatic variables as well.
109	Agreement	I'd really like it if they were looking at this from a population survey. My state publishes reinfection/breakthrough infection, etc. If they also published the vaccination rate of convalescent patients, then we could really start to see some more consistent analysis. As it is currently, breakthrough infection seems to be more common than reinfection based on the MN doh data.
528	Neutral	*reported cases
319	Disagreement	This is entirely false. Three-dose vaccination defeated delta in every country that tried it; nothing else except letting everyone catch delta and waiting for reinfections to start has succeeded at doing so.   We also know that the multivalent wt+beta+delta vaccines used in small trials were significantly more effective against delta and (though we've done no research) are certainly a lot more effective against omicron.  A wt+omicron, delta+omicron+b.1.640, or delta+omicron+sars+mers spike would, with near-certainty, so better against every existing variant and much better against any future variant.  The idea that science cannot solve vaccines doesn't really hold water.  We've had beta/delta spikes, engineered polymutant spikes,  and sars/mers spikes available for vaccine use for nearly a year now.  Only our fear of science has stopped us from even trying them,  even as an the research we have tried has shown us that a broad multivalent vaccine would be dramatically effective.
496	Disagreement	Waste water detection has increased starkly in many places here in the US, with large spikes abroad. I'd say sooner the better if the data supports its efficacy and safety.
826	Agreement	So if you’ve already had covid, getting vaccinated results in very robust protection— better than infection alone and better than vaccination alone. Makes sense. I wonder about the reverse- folks who were vaccinated first and then subsequently had a breakthrough infection. I assume better than vaccination alone, but I wonder how it compares to infection first.
167	Neutral	Reducing hospitalization/death and avoiding infection are different success criteria.
378	Agreement	I would agree with you on the "does that mean it is a failure? not at all" and "the real truth is that COVID is different enough".  You must consider that in a short period of time they created these vaccines. They rushed to get something out to the public to help slow down the deaths. Try to imagine where we might be if they took the standard procedures for developing a vaccine?  How long did it take to create those other vaccines?
423	Agreement	Wouldn’t it be safe to say a lot of people have heightened stress, fear, anxiety, etc, until they are reassured of themselves in taking the shot for their protection? More of a placebo effect than “the shot helps improve mental health”...!
908	Agreement	To be clear, this study does not estimate the probability of being infected with either Omicron or Delta by vaccination status.  It examines test positivity rate: given that you have chosen to get a PCR test, what percentage of the time do those PCR tests give a positive result, by vaccination status and variant.    People who choose to get a PCR test are likely to be a biased sample (those with symptoms) compared to the broader population , and the actual probability of a random person in the population being infected is likely different.  Of course, the authors do not make this claim, I am just clarifying as it could be misread this way.
196	Agreement	That's pretty much what the authors wrote:  &#x200B;  >For Omicron, the similarity between ORs for 3 doses using the unvaccinated referent group and the 2-dose referent group is consistent with the attenuation of the OR for 2 doses vs unvaccinated with time since second dose, **which reflected no significant association by 6 months after second dose** for both products.
925	Agreement	what a great response
949	Agreement	Yeah this is a low effort contribution that isn’t even based on this paper’s results. Countless other papers have shown “vaccines work”, not this one. 21 people of working age not being hospitalized is hardly evidence of vaccines reducing severity when the hospitalization rate is low single digits to begin with (perhaps well below 1% for Omicron in this age group, even for unvaccinated people).
655	Agreement	Does the paper state whether or not the vaccinated hamsters got sarscov2 injected into their testes?
871	Agreement	The NIAID study showed that starting with J&J and boosting m-RNA had a big bump in antibodies, but they erred already waning significantly from week 2 to week 4. The other way around, they were still increasing at week 4.
782	Agreement	No antigenic sin here
540	Agreement	> even with delta at 20+ weeks they were less than 50% effective.  *against infection*. They still provided ~95% protection against hospitalization against Delta hospitalization in immunocompetent population.
653	Agreement	Does anyone have the access to the full paper? The ratio between pre and post vaccination antibody titer could also be higher if the levels of antibodies were much lower pre-vaccination in those individuals...
52	Agreement	BA.2 information is at best vague, anyone have any published results? Interested in how the new mutation will impact US
322	Disagreement	This part stuck out to me, "The absence of any severe disease, hospitalization or death in the study precludes the assessment of vaccine efficacy against these endpoints."  I think that's a good thing, and serves as a reminder as to how low the risk of Omicron is to young children.  NOTE: edited for clarity.
131	Agreement	It seems that protection from severe disease are very stable from t-cells against severe disease if you had previous infection. Very important. https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.12.12.472315v1
955	Agreement	Yes, but even just the discussion of developing vaccines back in 2020 had set off the anti-vaxxers, who have already been gaining traction for years prior to Covid, back in the Wakefield days of 1998.   Pointing out the hypocrisy between concern of vaccines while there’s  far less concern of the over 350,000 chemicals in the environment, only several thousand of which have a MSDS, and of which several are known carcinogens, neurotoxins, endocrine disrupters and VOC’s is one way to get the discussion of risk and benefit/harm/risk analysis broached.  Another topic is both the short-term and macro economic and societal costs. Humans tend to be very focused on the short-term, immediate concerns, and we underestimate long-term costs and risks, or even consciously choose to “kick the can down the road”.   There is not enough education about the known and unknown risks of pathogens, chemicals and drugs/treatments, and where the potential benefit outweighs those risks.   The other part is that we don’t know what we don’t know, so there’s additional unknown or yet-to-be discovered long-term sequelae and macroeconomic costs with every variable.
269	Agreement	Yes, it is valid. Usually the pressure to become milder is driven by the fact that symptomatic people are more likely to be at home in bed, not actively riding the subway or whatever, so by reducing symptoms the virus can access more hosts.
734	Agreement	In layman terms (have no clue on virology), is Covid  in endemic stage? Like by this time next year, would it bear more resemblance to say common cold? Or is there still a long way to go, before it finally reaches there?
279	Disagreement	> And the summary leaves out a lot of important data/assumptions:  Not really. The main finding here is the breadth of immune response to N501Y is better in mRNA vaccinated individuals than convalescents.   The rest of your points would perhaps explain the difference in overall titer or decreasing titer over time, but not breadth (the majority of the abstract).
613	Agreement	Also, the Novavax spike protein is slightly different than Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna.  >The vaccine NVX-CoV2373 (PS), developed by Novavax and Ad26.COV2.S vaccine (nrVV) of Janssen Pharmaceuticals, are vaccines that deploy the S glycoprotein with a mutated furin cleavage site and K986P/V987P proline substitutions.  https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fimmu.2021.701501/full
477	Disagreement	Seems like one possibility then would be variant specific boosting needs 2 doses, anyone else come away with that as an open question?
197	Agreement	That’s not what I saw being reported. FDA encouraged Pfizer to submit data for approval so they could review it. After review, it looks like more data is needed
179	Agreement	Sorry, I couldn’t find it. Do you have the title of his article?
327	Disagreement	Why does the graph drop to below zero after 8 months? That seems.. odd.
202	Agreement	The idea that more mild forms of viruses will be selected for over time isn’t really a fact and as much as it is true it offers little predictive power as it’s only true over long timescales.  > A commonly stated idea is that there is often an evolutionary trade-off between virulence and transmissibility because intra-host virus replication is necessary to facilitate inter-host transmission but may also lead to disease, and it is impossible for natural selection to optimize all traits simultaneously. In the case of MYXV, this trade-off is thought to lead to ‘intermediate’ virulence grades being selectively advantageous: higher virulence may mean that the rabbit host dies before inter-host transmission, whereas lower virulence is selected against because it does not increase virus transmission rates. A similar trade-off model has been proposed to explain the evolution of HIV virulence40. However, many doubts have been raised about the general applicability of the trade-off model35,41,42,43, virus fitness will be affected by traits other than virulence and transmissibility39,41,44, contrary results have been observed in experimental studies45 and relatively little is known about evolutionary trade-offs in nature. For example, in the case of the second virus released as a biocontrol against European rabbits in Australia — rabbit haemorrhagic disease virus (RHDV) — there is evidence that virulence has increased through time, probably because virus transmission often occurs through blow flies that feed on animal carcasses, making host death selectively favourable46. Similarly, experimental studies of plant RNA viruses have shown that high virulence does not necessarily impede host adaptation47 and, in the case of malaria, higher virulence was shown to provide the Plasmodium parasites with a competitive advantage within hosts48.  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41576-018-0055-5  We have plenty of evidence of virulence being selected for   Since the beginning of the pandemic people have been predicting that SARS-CoV-2 would mutate and become milder.  You mentioned SARS and MERS, being an epidemiologist, you should know that neither passed asymptomatically and both had much lower R0.  SARS presented with a fever for example.  The point being that Covid started more mild and could spread asymptomatically.  As much as the idea that a more mild strain would be selected for ix true, it requires the strain to at once transmit better and be more mild (when you have spread without symptoms, that space in the fitness landscape is much smaller)  > AT that point the virus became very virulent just before essentially disappearing as distinct antagonistic organism to certain bird populations. I also look at things like CCR5 and can see how WE as a species have reacted to existential threats...  Dude, the ccr5 is an adaptation to either plague (consensus) or smallpox(I read a paper that argued that smallpox was more likely to have provided the selective pressure) either way, that demonstrates that we changed and not the pathogen. It takes literally generations for a trait to get fixed.
641	Agreement	Conclusions  In this cross-sectional analysis of baseline data collected from patients who enrolled in a phase 3 randomized trial of early outpatient treatment of SARS-CoV-2 infection, vaccinated individuals had a lower viral load and lower prevalence of systemic symptoms than those who had not been vaccinated. The effect on viral load was no longer present for persons vaccinated more than 6 months prior. The primary goal of being “fully vaccinated” is to prevent serious disease, which may still occur after 6 months. Future research should look at viral load beyond 6 months to understand whether the term “fully vaccinated” for viral load and transmission should define only those vaccinated within the previous 6 months. Vaccine- and booster-induced reduction in viral load may be an important component for achieving reduced coronavirus spread.
402	Agreement	The same thing was found for a Beta-specific booster as I recall -- it seems fairly clear that imprinting is the problem, but I guess nobody wants to admit it.  The only way to know for sure would be to find a sample group that is:  -  unvaccinated -  not previously infected  and  -  willing to participate in a vaccine trial  which is probably a pretty small group.
961	Agreement	You’re linking to a study of mostly Delta cases months ago, before omicron.  If there’s a qualitative difference in viral load we’d see that result in household secondary attack rates.  Whatever that factor may be, there’s no real world evidence it’s 10 fold.
292	Disagreement	I would question the underlying data here. In the UK for example myocarditis or any other adverse events are reported on a voluntary basis. Adverse events go unreported in any case. This will not be the case for C19 patients who are likely to be in a hospital setting and monitored. The whole report could simply be interpreted as 'patients are more likely to be diagnosed with myocarditis' than others.
758	Agreement	It's curious that this post should be down-voted. No-one has said what they disagreed with, but there's really nothing controversial in it.  The idea that a secondary adaptive immune response is stronger and more persistent than a primary is basic immunology. The idea that a covid infection + a vaccine dose gives a similar immune response to no infections and two vaccine doses has been demonstrated by a number of studies and has been the basis of guidance in some countries that only a single dose is required in those previously infected (reviewed here: [https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-021-01609-4](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-021-01609-4)) - NB this was prior to the 3rd dose recommendations for those previously vaccinated.  Perhaps one of the down-voters would care to give their thoughts?
649	Agreement	Do you mean that a link to other COVID vaccines could be inferred? Because associations to other, non-COVID ones certainly exist, e.g. influenza.
453	Disagreement	I thought at the beginning of all this, that the lowest acceptable efficacy was going to be 50%? Am I misremembering that?
80	Neutral	Early Pfizer data from Israel states booster’s peak efficiency is in the neighborhood of 10 weeks. I got my Moderna booster in August (a full size, not the half size booster they’re giving now) and tested positive the first week of January. Anecdotal, but my case was mild. Primarily sore throat, congestion, fatigue, and low grade fever/chills.
456	Disagreement	I’m not sure I understand your point here. Using the 99% protection against reinfection for previous strains instead of 85% only makes omicron look way worse.
194	Agreement	That's definitely a possibility,  but the inability to get consistent results across regions will make it impossible to measure.   This may be the first time it's seen with boosters,  but the 2-dose data is all over the place.  Ontario which had a long dosing interval had -100% measured VE against omicron at one point.
886	Agreement	There’s very early data from a study on AVV gene therapy that showed elevated troponin levels and very mild transient myocarditis post-IP dose in a younger adult male subject who is very physically active.   We need to dig deeper on the relationship between immune activation/stress, testosterone levels, physical activity level, age, and troponin/myocarditis, and whether this myocarditis is very mild and transient, or if any sequelae occur.
659	Agreement	EDIT: I have edited my response after reading through this study as well as the authors' previous one.  This pair of studies used 16 peptides (23mer).  10 of the peptides are "T-cell epitope optimized" and do not contain known B-cell epitopes at all. These were selected based on computationally predicted T-cell epitopes that were filtered for various criteria, including HLA binding, predicted immunogenicity, location on S, M, or N protein (as opposed to other proteins like ORF's, etc), etc.  6 of the peptides are "B-cell epitope optimized" and are based around three linear B-cell epitopes located at functional, conserved surface regions of the Spike protein. Although some of these peptides had broad coverage of HLA-I alleles, coverage for HLA-II alleles was generally poor (immunology review: a peptide's ability to bind to a range of widely-expressed HLA alleles is a major limiting factor in its viability as a good T-cell epitope). The authors suggest that a vaccine designed to stimulate B-cell and CD4+ T-cells would require the use of non-spatially overlapping sequences.  In both studies, strong humoral response was not detected with any of the peptides, including the B-cell epitope optimized peptides. Most of the T-cell epitope optimized peptides elicited strong T-cell responses, but as per the second study, the mice did not seem to gain protection against infection or disease after viral challenge.  By way of background, in general discovering peptides designed to elicit T-cell responses is relatively more developed than discovering linear epitopes designed to elicit B-cell responses. As the authors note in their first study, most attempts to discover linear epitopes to elicit protective B-cell responses have failed, and in practice there hasn't been much use practical application of using linear peptides either since it would probably need to be scaffolded to something anyways. (immunology review: most naturally occurring B-cell epitopes are not linear.) Current development efforts in peptide vaccines are focused on cancer (surprise!), where T-cells are the primary focus.
536	Agreement	> As the log scales used in this figure, Comirnaty in general performs around 10 fold better in terms of binding and neutralizing activity in nearly all tests.    I agree that it looks worse than Comirnaty but you're overestimating the difference in neutralizing antibody titers. They selected the 3 µg dose for further trials, so that's the one we should be looking at. Comparison using the WT shows very little difference. With delta, the difference is approximately 4-fold (approximately 10^2.1 vs 10^1.5), and with beta it looks similar.    And the ratio of neutralizing to non-neutralizing antibodies when using an RBD-based vaccine is of general interest, even if doesn't say anything about how good this particular vaccine is.
64	Agreement	Cutting the risk of hospitalization in half still seems pretty good given how rare serious side effects are.
44	Agreement	Are there any studies comparing NVX to Omicron or has there not been enough time to set up a proper study to compare?
305	Disagreement	Please correct me if I am reading this wrong. Did this indicate that the vaccine preventing hospitalization for kids from 5-11 decreased from 100% to 48%?
854	Agreement	That seems to be what the authors are arguing.
841	Agreement	Spell this out for me :  Are you saying that immunity is a less specific word than protection? I'm not sure that's always the case.
360	Agreement	Does anyone know would having two doses of the vaccine and having a breakthrough infection not so long ago ( 1-2 months) not offer significant protection? Especially considering it’s not so long since a covid infection.
85	Agreement	Great comment. Then there will be a trade off between giving enough time to enable at least part dormancy and maintaining neutralizing antibody levels in circulation. The "differentiation" of B cells to recognize unseen mutations is absolutely fascinating. One could wonder how this got evolutionary conserved!
930	Agreement	What's the proposed mechanism of action for vaccination reducing symptoms of existing long COVID?
283	Disagreement	As the other person, AimingWineSnailz, said, this is incorrect. Moderna developed and tested VOC specific boosters based on both Delta & Beta. Neither elicited a more robust response than another shot of the original vaccine based on the wild-type.      Moderna also tested these two VOC boosters against Omicron when that was first discovered late last year. Again another shot of the original worked about as well. Omicron is much more mutated than the previous VOCs so there is a decent chance the updated vaccines Pfizer & Moderna are both developing/testing will be a good option this time (and if so potentially against "the next mutation" if it stems from Omicron).      Notwithstanding, the lack of variant specific boosters against Beta/Delta had nothing to do w/ development time - they just didn't prove significantly more effective than the original which is more than well manufactured/distributed at this point.      Most of Moderna's info about their VOC boosters can be found in their 3rd Quarter earning report (PDF) from last year.
811	Agreement	Read the last paragraph on page 5. Please
922	Agreement	Weirdly, people with 3 vaccine doses after infection  (full series+booster) had a lower risk than people with 2 doses (i.e. the effect reversed)  My guess would be some strange confounding factor  https://www.medrxiv.org/content/medrxiv/early/2022/02/13/2022.02.10.22270744/F4.large.jpg
153	Agreement	On a personal level: there doesn't seem to be any evidence (unless I've missed something big, in which case I'd appreciate some links) that they are at more risk from Omicron than from other variants, which they were at *spectacularly* low risk from (indeed, less risk than they are at from flu in a normal winter, as of the last time I checked the figures). They're possibly (I haven't seen enough data on recent second dose efficacy) at somewhat higher risk of contracting it and passing it around (over and above the increased risk from its higher transmissibility), but it still isn't something to be particularly concerned about from a personal health outcomes perspective. Obviously, there are wider societal issues, and secondary personal negative effects from things like isolation, but on a narrow personal health perspective, it's pretty much a wash.
160	Agreement	Perhaps the unvaccinated cohort is more likely to have higher neutralizing antibody levels from a recent infection at that point in time than the vaccinated cohort, since the latter was less likely to be infected in the months before? Basically you have an unvaccinated group which has been slowly building immunity over time through infections, while the other one has neutralizing antibody levels dwindling and hitting a low point with a certain level of synchronicity.  Where I live in Canada, there was a time in late December where the government was showing the data on the risks of infection (based on positive PCR testing) and the unvaccinated was at 0.7x the risks of the vaccinated (2 doses) during Omicron. Of course that could have been due to the unvaccinated being less likely to get tested, although that 0.7x used to be at 3.5x in early December. These numbers were based on the previous 28 days of data. And got me wondering if the unvaccinated was less likely to be infected by Omicron due to being much more likely to have been infected by Delta in the months prior.
966	Disagreement	> then people will notice that the vast bulk of the vaccinated had only mild side effects, and we have beaten this thing, and vaccination will be more accepted, not less  I think this is optimistic. Conspiratorial, magical thinking moves the goalposts all the time, it is beyond reason. They could say, “wait until a few years from now, then the vaxxed will see their effects”. Likewise they’ll interpret deaths of unvaxxed as deliberate, even now they are targeting HCP.
386	Agreement	It says they're teens, so in theory it will be the adult Pfizer dose. I believe they start lowering the size of the dose for under 12s
82	Neutral	Exactly. That is the critical question.  For unvaccinated and not previously infected the question is settled.  Definitely get the vaccine.    The crux is what ADDITIONAL benefit either boosting or vaccination of previously infected people offers in regards to severe disease/myocarditis.  And not just is there an additional benefit (all available evidence would say there is) but is that additional benefit worth it in the context of the potential side effects.    The key demographic is the young teenager - 30 yo man.  Depends on the study, but they seem to have about a 1/10,000 risk of myocarditis from vaccination.  Much higher than women and both older and younger men.
189	Agreement	Thanks very helpful!
677	Agreement	hmm I've been out of the loop on VE studies against mortality, but gotta admit the figures for the 2 dose (59%) are less than I might have expected (albeit, there's f\*ing massive CIs -- 4-82% -- so that may play a role)  Still great that 3 dose is working wonderfully, though
644	Agreement	Correct me if I’m wrong but won’t basically everyone get covid so young men and children will get the vaccine myocarditis chance plus the covid myocarditis chance.
746	Agreement	Is it true the Omicron variant doesn't attack the lungs like the original Covid-19, thus fewer hospitalizations?
771	Agreement	Literally the billion dollar question nobody seems to know the answer to.
787	Agreement	Not OP’s fault, but the title is misleading because they’re talking about the booster, not the original vaccination.
438	Disagreement	China or Russia will happily violate the patent but the problem is the fundamental reagents needed to even make the pills are in short supply. Actually it's not even the reagents but the products needed to make the reagents and then the products to make those products! Literally sodium is the shortfall. That's insane.  https://www.science.org/content/blog-post/making-paxlovid  > *DIBOC is pretty much a commodity, but when you look closely at the supply chain, you find that there are not as many original suppliers of it as you might have thought. And there are, in fact, some supply problems on scale right now because making DIBOC needs (among other things) another reagent called sodium t-butoxide. Well, that's another commodity - I've used that stuff every so often since the 1980s and never gave a moment's thought to where it comes from. But to make that, you need t-butanol and sodium metal, and it turns out that there is, of all things, a bottleneck for sodium t-butoxide because there's not quite enough sodium to go around. Sodium metal is produced in a brute-force, energy-intensive electrolysis process that goes back to 1924, and there have been electricity supply problems that have interfered with the plants making it.*
141	Agreement	It’d be interested to see clinical outcomes for matched cohorts with the same vaccine types but with 1 month vs 3-6 months intervals between first series.
335	Agreement	> Vaccine efficacy against any SARS-CoV-2 infection was 30% (95% confidence interval [CI], −9 to 55) for BNT162b2 and 11% (95% CI, −43 to 44) for mRNA-1273 (Figure 1C). Most infected health care workers reported negligible symptoms, both in the control group and the intervention groups. However, most of the infected participants were potentially infectious, with relatively high viral loads (nucleocapsid gene cycle threshold, ≤25) (Table S6). Vaccine efficacy was estimated to be higher for the prevention of symptomatic disease (43% for BNT162b2 and 31% for mRNA-1273) (Fig. S4).  An additional protection of 30% against infection and 43% against symptomatic infection is not that bad for a 4th dose. Some diminishing returns is to be expected. I feel like using the terms "marginal benefit" is a bit uncharitable.
373	Agreement	I thought that it marginally increased protection against delta while decreasing it against alpha, wild type, etc…  It was deemed unnecessary and perhaps detrimental on net.
313	Disagreement	The thing with the greater risk taking argument after getting vaccinated, majority of the unvaccinated have been living that way the entire time
287	Disagreement	I agree.  I mean one of the main authors is Dr Ferguson, aka Dr Doom in some circles.  He recently predicted like 5000 deaths per day in the Uk if no further measures are put in place.  I find that that number quite absurd to be honest.  Even at the peak of Delta etc we didn't have numbers like that.
777	Agreement	Moderna tried that back last fall I believe (half wild-type + half Beta specific booster), and the results were the same. Perhaps if that was the first exposure someone had it'd be more effective, but we can't go back now.
212	Agreement	The t-cell response for various vaccines are different.  from my personal observation, there is few or little scratching throat for people who had 2 or 3 doses of sinovac as comparing to people who had biontech (3 doses).  &#x200B;  it is known that sinovac generates less antibodies but significantly better t cell response for the structural protein
738	Agreement	Interested in the seemingly better vaccine neutralization of BA.2 than BA.1, why that would possibly be seeing as BA.2 is currently replacing BA.1, and what the implications are for that.
728	Agreement	If I were to guess they’d be more likely to be tested due to vaccine-or-test mandates at a lot of workplaces.   I don’t buy it as a behavioural difference. Vaccination and natural immunity both reduce symptoms and thus likeliness of suspecting covid. The difference is only a portion (albeit possibly high) of unvaccinated have this effect.
596	Neutral	Abstract  Several variants of SARS-CoV-2 have emerged. Those with mutations in the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE2) receptor binding domain (RBD) are associated with increased transmission and severity. In this study, we developed both antibody quantification and functional neutralization assays. Analyses of both COVID-19 convalescent and diagnostic cohorts strongly support the use of RBD antibody levels as an excellent surrogate to biochemical neutralization activities. Data further revealed that the samples from mRNA vaccinated individuals had a median of 17 times higher RBD antibody levels and a similar degree of increased neutralization activities against RBD-ACE2 binding than those from natural infections. Our data showed that N501Y RBD had fivefold higher ACE2 binding than the original variant. While some antisera from naturally infected subjects had substantially reduced neutralization ability against N501Y RBD, all blood samples from vaccinated individuals were highly effective in neutralizing it. Thus, **our data indicates that mRNA vaccination may generate more neutralizing RBD antibodies than natural immunity. It further suggests a potential need to maintain high RBD antibody levels to control the more infectious SARS-CoV-2 variants.**
408	Agreement	This study only measures IgG titers, and I don't think I've seen a study that measures neutralizing IgA titers against Omicron. Omicron rapidly reproduces in the nose and throat. Maybe it's the case that IgG antibodies aren't capable of preventing a breakthrough infection and what we are seeing is that the vaccines' IgA neutralizing responses to Omicron are pretty weak?
254	Agreement	Where did you read that? I’ve been googling for the past 15 minutes and can’t find any mention of the EUA being withdrawn  u/ultra003 \- in my googling just now, I did find Fauci’s reasoning on this matter for what it’s worth. I can’t copy the link here, so I’ll capture the relevant section below  &#x200B;  >WILL IT GET APPROVED IN THE UNITED STATES?   Fauci mistakenly said on “Morning In America” that Covaxin’s manufacturer, Bharat, had not applied for FDA approval. But his office followed up later that day with this statement: “Bharat Biotech, the company that has developed Covaxin, has applied to the FDA for an emergency use authorization (EUA) for their vaccine. The FDA is currently evaluating the data and no decision has been made.”   “The FDA looks at the data and if the data are in order and give you a good scientific rationale to approve it, the FDA will approve it,” Fauci also said in the “Morning in America” interview. “There are no interventions that are not being approved for reasons other than they’ve either not been submitted for approval or the data are not strong enough to warrant approval.”   When asked about its FDA application, a spokesperson for Ocugen stated that in a Phase 3 clinical trial Covaxin was 93.4 effective at preventing severe COVID cases, and was 77.8 percent effective again the overall disease. It also noted in a trial with children it got similar results.   “Ocugen submitted a pediatric Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) based on these data to the FDA on Nov. 5, 2021, so that parents and healthcare providers in the U.S. can have a safe and effective vaccine option for their children in the effort to end the coronavirus pandemic,” Ocugen said in a statement to NewsNation.   **Fauci said he did not think the United States needed another vaccine. Instead, he said, it needed to get more people vaccinated with the vaccines currently approved.**   **“It’s not alternative. It’s another vaccine,” Fauci said of Covaxin in his appearance on “Morning in America.” “We don’t need another vaccine**
776	Agreement	Moderna is the same but has a higher effective dose of the active ingredient, 100ug in Moderna vs 30ug for Pfizer (booster doses are 50ug and 30ug, respectively)
123	Agreement	Isn't there a poorly understood phenomenon called "viral interference"?  I thought it was fairly uncommon/difficult to get competing infections at the same time, that any infection ramps the bodies immune system in a fairly broad/general fashion for a short period of time.  The study explicitly states that everyone in the booster arm had their booster less than three months ago.  Wouldn't deliberate infection with a competing coronavirus, or anything really for that matter, also illicit "neutralizing immunity", at least for a brief period in time?  This is something I've been curious about since the get go, especially with how quickly our vaccines have appeared to wane...  If a group of persons were given a vaccine and another group were infected with some minor cold virus at the same interval, would they have meaningfully different outcomes in resisting covid-19 and her variants over the same intervals of time?  Such a study would be plainly unethical and likely lethal to some number that just succumb to the deliberate cold infection no matter how mild, but I've been wondering if it mattered what we dosed people with all this time or if the observed results from vaccines were just the sort of results we'd capture if we stuck anything in to people that induced a general immune response.
116	Neutral	In Sweden it is part of the official guidelines that the unvaccinated are extra careful and avoid crowded places.  [https://www.krisinformation.se/en/hazards-and-risks/disasters-and-incidents/2020/official-information-on-the-new-coronavirus/current-rules-and-recommendations](https://www.krisinformation.se/en/hazards-and-risks/disasters-and-incidents/2020/official-information-on-the-new-coronavirus/current-rules-and-recommendations)
375	Agreement	I understand the opposition. They are not peddling arguments related to the duration of exposure to a spike protein. Really, I have not seen that argument. It's more a government conspiracy thing than anything
572	Agreement	>No one was admitted to the hospital.   Vaccines work
900	Agreement	This negative VE in 91-150 looks very similar to what's been happening in England where there's more infected per 100k among the vaccinated than unvaccinated in all age groups (not Omicron related; been like that long now)
451	Disagreement	I don't understand, I thought the spike protein was significantly different?
333	Agreement	> If assigned to control, the participants started a sedentary period within 30 min of vaccination. The sedentary period consisted of sitting while watching videos for 90 min. Adults randomized to exercise performed 90 min of exercise on a cycle ergometer at 60–70% of estimated maximal heart rate (HR max)...  Looks like they were studying the effects of exercise immediately after immunization.  It would be interesting to see the effects of exercise outside that time window, but I think that is beyond the scope of this paper.
845	Agreement	Super interesting stuff ... though I think the mice weren't exposed to WT before. One thing for sure, didn't expect Delta to do this well.  Though, I would have loved it if they tried instead of making a hybrid, to try some new spike to add to the bivalent alongside omicron.  Edit: Do we still have any omicron plasma experiments attempting to identify omicron serum escape mutations yet?
589	Neutral	Abstract  > Vaccines are thought to be the best available solution for controlling the ongoing SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. However, the emergence of vaccine-resistant strains may come too rapidly for current vaccine developments to alleviate the health, economic and social consequences of the pandemic. To quantify and characterize the risk of such a scenario, we created a SIR-derived model with initial stochastic dynamics of the vaccine-resistant strain to study the probability of its emergence and establishment. Using parameters realistically resembling SARS-CoV-2 transmission, we model a wave-like pattern of the pandemic and consider the impact of the rate of vaccination and the strength of non-pharmaceutical intervention measures on the probability of emergence of a resistant strain. As expected, we found that a fast rate of vaccination decreases the probability of emergence of a resistant strain. Counterintuitively, **when a relaxation of non-pharmaceutical interventions happened at a time when most individuals of the population have already been vaccinated the probability of emergence of a resistant strain was greatly increased. Consequently, we show that a period of transmission reduction close to the end of the vaccination campaign can substantially reduce the probability of resistant strain establishment. Our results suggest that policymakers and individuals should consider maintaining non-pharmaceutical interventions and transmission-reducing behaviours throughout the entire vaccination period.**  emphasis added
271	Agreement	Yes, that's exactly the comparison. What I would like to know is what the risk is if you get covid after vaccination, does someone have a study?
91	Agreement	Here’s one of the many  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41569-021-00662-w  Myocarditis was never a huge issue. Ever. It’s really people do not understand statistics and only read headlines
4	Agreement	**EDIT:** After some reflection, I think I have a better understanding of what the poster is trying to convey, so I'm modifying my response as a result.  u/large_pp_smol_brain, although I did not initially understand what you were getting worked up about, I think I understand more now.  Basically, your complaint seems to be about the **journalism standards** of the article that reported on the paper, not necessarily the preprint paper itself. A fairly insignificant and speculative comment in the Discussion section of the original paper was placed in the first paragraph of the article reporting on it, thereby amplifying it for people who only read the article.  I agree with your point that journalist or editor responsible for the article should not have chosen to amplify this comment in this matter, as it is not the paper's main focus at all.  I was confused because I thought you were commenting on the original paper, which really just focuses on the OR of Omicron infection for various populations. So I apologize for assuming you didn't read the paper.
441	Disagreement	Do we actually expect the next variant to be a descendant of Omicron? Omicron was not a descendant of Delta, and Delta was not a descendant of Alpha. It seems odd to me that the most dominant variant keeps failing to produce the most successful next major mutation, but just going by priors, we are not in a good position to bet in favor of Omicron based variants.
120	Agreement	Is this including incidental findings of Covid during unrelated visits? Because during omicron a huge proportion of patients coming in for any reason had Covid.
46	Agreement	As this study is clearly not blinded against placebo, there is no real claim that the vaccine improves GAD7 and PHQ9.   I see the purpose of this paper to counter any concerns that the vaccine could worsen GAD and MDD symptomatology. (Though, I believe all of the major vaccine trials collected PHQ9 as well so it was addressed there and more properly since they were blinded) but this adds to the picture.   The article title is dumb though
716	Agreement	I would have liked to see them use PMS20 from the Rockefeller group.
946	Agreement	Wow, pretty compelling evidence that the vaccines held up very well against what they were meant for, preventing symptomatic covid, even in the face of delta.
672	Agreement	GBS can occur after other vaccines, such as meningitis vaccine, that is well known though extremely rare.
675	Agreement	Has there been any studies of chronic infections in vaccinated immunocompromised people? All the case studies I have seen pre-date vaccines.
650	Agreement	Do you mean the unvaccinated? I mean they both can, but the vaccinated are less likely, so that would make the results better for them the longer you keep watching.
142	Agreement	It’s probably difficult because there are so many variables to consider.  With vaccines themselves, order matters. Hence studies posted here *usually* stick with vaccination schedules of a single variety, because even the structure of the immune response changes with the ordering.  A basic example is that with the mRNA vaccines, the immune response of a natural infection followed by full vaccination just looks different than that generated by a breakthrough case after full vaccination.  The latter case is fascinating, because the immune response expands the immune response (so it’s still mostly dependent on anti-spike antibodies) but also the breadth of those antibodies is enlarged  You get the other stuff like more T-cells in that latter case too, but the immune system seems to treat the breakthrough infection *almost* as if it were another (more powerful) vaccine.  Basically, the answer to your question is probably that comparing COVID naive vaccinees to COVID recovered non-vacinees is far easier to deal with from an empirical scientific study POV.
820	Agreement	See the graph on page 12 of the PDF. It compares test positivity rate for Omicron & Delta by vaccination status. Per that, among unvaccinated people Delta had a higher positivity rate.        If you take a look at that graph image and disagree please reply.
794	Agreement	odds ratio is the thing that tells you how much an intervention was better than the control... Intervention outcomes ÷ Control outcomes  1 being the null hypothesis and OR < 1 having the intervention being better than the control. and OR > 1 having the control being better than the intervention.  92% of the time the people in the intervention group didn't go to the ICU compared to the control group.   P factor is just a way to show something is statistically significant. P value tells you how likely this result is if the NULL hypothesis were true. null hypothesis is that there is no difference in the outcomes. so a small P value tells you that the null hypothesis is probably not the correct one and that there is some correlation to the data. A smaller P value doesn't mean anything other than it's less likely to happen if the null hypothesis was true. (this is fairly simplified though)
430	Disagreement	>in previous studies, they note most who develop it, the treatment is to wait for hour or so and it goes away  I sure would like to see those studies.
902	Agreement	This sounds promising.  I'm curious if the decrease in hospitalization / severity stands after accounting for the age of the individuals in the study ("Omicron patients were significantly younger").
684	Agreement	https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.10.25.21265304v1.full.pdf+html  https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.10.17.21265101v2.full.pdf+html  https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.12.28.21268436v1.full.pdf+html  (Last is for omicron. Only around 65% protection from hospitalization. Boosting brings it to 85%)
71	Agreement	Do you mean immediately, before vaccine has a chance to work? Then risk would be similar as without taking the vaccine.  If you mean after being protected then the risk is reduced, because your antibodies will start neutralizing the virus and make it hard for it to replicate, so likely closer to none.  Anyway, myocarditis is rare, both, with vaccine as well as with covid.  Edit: I had no idea these statements would be polarizing. Looks like this post is being brigaded.
937	Agreement	Why would reduced severity have anything to do with transmissibility?
814	Agreement	Remember that SARS-CoV-2 migrates through the body and has affected most organs at one time or another among various cases of covid.  It's inefficient to vaccinate half of, then inject a 1000 or more hamsters, via normal route, then screen for which ones got migration to the testes, which could be very few, and then assess effect of placebo vs. vaccination, on potentially so few individuals that your assessment does not provide enough data points for a defensible conclusion.  For example, when you hear of a positive finding of cancer after test animals are exposed to a chemical needing assessment, it is often injected directly into organs so the researcher knows where to look for damage. Kidneys are popular for this purpose, and any normal ingestion route such as eating is similarly not always useful for research. This is particularly true when the causative agent expresses effect infrequently.
819	Agreement	See the figures in brackets? That's the 95% confidence interval. The authors cannot conclude yet (and don't conclude yet) that there is a genuine increase in risk after Pfizer and AZ. The Moderna result though is clear. Stats are a really important part of analysing this sort of data.
792	Agreement	Note that convalescents in this study were those who had a COVID infection as well as at least two doses of vaccine (either 2 doses followed by a booster ~6 months later, or a single dose followed by a booster ~6 months later).  So everyone had (as the headline covers) 3 exposures or more.  The fact that infection + vaccination produces higher titers is not really surprising, even in those who "only" had two doses of vaccine.  > developed after either two vaccinations in convalescents or after a third vaccination or breakthrough infection of twice-vaccinated, naive individuals  > 68 convalescents gave written informed consent for further analyses after their COVID-19 vaccination. [...] All naive and 25/68 convalescent individuals continuously followed-up received two doses of BNT162b2 mRNA-vaccine (Comirnaty™, Biontech/Pfizer) as immunization. [...] Due to a change in the national guidelines in March 2021, the remaining 43/68 convalescents from the first wave were only vaccinated once with BNT162b2 until mid 2021 assuming that the prior infection substitutes for one vaccination
958	Agreement	Yes,TWIV just did an analysis of exactly that
293	Disagreement	I'm not an immunologist, so I can't say  People do their "research" as much as they want, but they didn't go to school to learn about virology, immunology, whatever-ology.  It's like, why would you walk into a lawyer's office and start telling him strats on how to win cases? Or into a surgery room to start critiquing their surgical technique.  I'm not saying we should blindly listen to Fauci or whoever, but people need to stop acting like they know exactly what they're talking about. Not saying you are, by any means, but it's questions like these that internet strangers shouldn't be answering
214	Agreement	There are a few keywords in posts that get frequently brigaded. Masks and myocarditis are two of them.
331	Agreement	> I have to imagine this is due (at least in part) to the current 2022 strains being so diverged from the 2019 strain that was used to make the vaccines.  No, it's probably because the current strains reproduce so fast in the upper respiratory tract that they result in symptoms before the immune system has a chance to kick into higher gear. If the incubation period is shorter than the time needed to re-activate memory B cells, then you're relying on circulating antibody levels to reduce peak viral loads. Peak viral load typically occurs the day of symptoms appearing or the day before. Which could be just \~2 days post-exposure.
889	Agreement	They gave the total number of suspected myocarditis cases for each subgroup, but I don't see the total number of the subgroup itself. IE, the number of total immunized persons per age range and sex. I am sure one can extrapolate that data from elsewhere, but including in this analysis would help me be more comfortable with their interpretation. We'll see how much is changed if they get past peer review.   Has anyone else noted that the authors are estimating a myocarditis rate of around 2/1,000,000 for the vaccinated group. A very small number. As oppose to COVID's mortality of about 2/100, this complication rate is very small. Or, from what I can calculate from my state's public data (US), a mortality of 2/1000 in the 20-40 year old range.
603	Agreement	Actually, Abbott reported much higher. Independent tests came up with \~65%. Taking two antigen tests just before contact is surely better than a PCR done days beforehand. Unless it's a rapid PCR, but that's not practical.
901	Agreement	This only includes PCR testing. A large amount of testing for Omicron was done vía rapid/antigen tests.
836	Agreement	So vaccines help prevent this in humans potentially?
88	Agreement	Ha yeah I suck at math. I’m going to ask on a math sub. Whatever it is it’s not 0. It’s basically saying that 67% is 67% higher than x, but I can’t wrap my mind around the calculation. I’ll report back
652	Agreement	Does a booster provide greater protection against severe illness? Because protection from infection seems very short lived
429	Disagreement	>I recall seeing some speculation about 2 doses of this vaccine.  IIRC Pfizer is testing it.
203	Agreement	The important definition there is what constitutes "an interaction with the health system" in their C19 positive data. If it's just data from hospitals then we can't generalize it to the population level.
842	Agreement	Studies do show reduced transmission by vaccinated individual infected with the delta variant. [Here's an example published less than 2 weeks ago](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa2116597). Risk of transmission was reduced by half if the index case was vaccinated with BNT162b2 (aka Comirnaty / Pfizer vaccine). That was lower than the reduction in risk of transmission of the alpha variant but still very significant. Of course there's the caveat that this risk reduction, like other aspects of vaccine effectiveness, decreased with time.
543	Agreement	> I can’t find any hard data on this but if hypothetically that explains 95% of the myocarditis cases then sounds like we have a very easy solution.  I mean that’s a totally speculative hypothetical. Are there myocarditis numbers out of Singapore that suggest they are not experiencing this?
468	Disagreement	Not directly but the click-baity title suggests it.   Also this is kind of a “we studied common sense and reached the obvious outcome!”.  Not sure what the actual relevance to the virus for this is....
436	Disagreement	But the undated Omicron specific vaccine turned out to offer near zero protection against Delta, according to early studies. So we can't really make the bet right now - if our next major surge is a variant based on Omicron, we will be fine, but if it turns out to be an unrelated variant, the Omicron vaccines may well fare worse than the original formula. Given that Delta was not a descendant of Alpha, and Omicron was not a descendant of Delta, I would say the odds are not great that the next dominant variant will be a descendant of Omicron.
940	Agreement	With all these unknowns I think it's quite clear that mandates are wrong.
278	Neutral	“An epidemic of uncertainty: rumors, conspiracy theories and vaccine hesitancy”  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-022-01728-z  Abstract The COVID-19 ‘infodemic’ continues to undermine trust in vaccination efforts aiming to bring an end to the pandemic. However, the challenge of vaccine hesitancy is not only a problem of the information ecosystem and it often has little to do with the vaccines themselves.  In this Perspective, we argue that the epidemiological and social crises brought about by COVID-19 have magnified widely held social anxieties and trust issues that, in the unique circumstances of this global pandemic, have exacerbated skepticism toward vaccines.  We argue that trust is key to overcoming vaccine hesitancy, especially in a context of widespread social uncertainty brought about by the pandemic, where public sentiment can be volatile.  Finally, we draw out some implications of our argument for strategies to build vaccine confidence.
625	Agreement	As noted by other commenters, if the myocarditis is very mild, transient, and resolved without intervention, does this occur after other infections, vaccinations or stress in active younger men?  Is this part of a typical immune response that we were never looking for prior to current times?  Could very mild transient myocarditis be one of the causes of fatigue in so many post-infection and/or post-vaccination?
282	Disagreement	Am I reading figure 2 correctly? It seems to say that the occurrence of myocarditis was higher prior to the vaccine. The green bar (2019 rates) is larger than the blue bar (post vaccination rates) in all but the 15-17 age group.
662	Agreement	Exactly my thought as well.  Are patients infected with Omikron still less likely to become hospitalized compared to Delta for the same age group?
898	Agreement	This is a promising vaccine because it can already use the infrastructure in place in several countries because of influenza vaccine. Butanta institute in Brazil can produce 20 million vaccines monthly (and this is without production expansion).    Actually they already have this vaccine in stock. 40 million if I recall.  Another advantage is price. It cost $1 to $2 dollar. Normal storage too...
732	Agreement	Improving indoor air quality and developing prophylactic treatments including nasal sprays, enhancement of IgA immunity (fir all respiratory pathogens) and barriers to prevent viral adhesion should be the highest priority of research currently.   When you account for all respiratory pathogens, they collectively cause a high amount of illness ranging from mild to fatal, are potentially preventable (or at least able to mitigate risk), and cost healthcare systems and economies globally billions in lost productivity, days of work/school, healthcare costs, etc.
844	Agreement	Summary      The emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOC) threaten the effectiveness of current COVID-19 vaccines administered intramuscularly and designed to only target the spike protein. There is a pressing need to develop next-generation vaccine strategies for broader and long-lasting protection. Using adenoviral vectors (Ad) of human and chimpanzee origin, we evaluated Ad-vectored trivalent COVID-19 vaccines expressing Spike-1, Nucleocapsid and RdRp antigens in murine models. We show that single-dose intranasal immunization, particularly with chimpanzee Ad-vectored vaccine, is superior to intramuscular immunization in induction of the tripartite protective immunity consisting of local and systemic antibody responses, mucosal tissue-resident memory T cells and mucosal trained innate immunity. We further show that intranasal immunization provides protection against both the ancestral SARS-CoV-2 and two VOC, B.1.1.7 and B.1.351. **Our findings indicate that respiratory mucosal delivery of Ad-vectored multivalent vaccine represents an effective next-generation COVID-19 vaccine strategy to induce all-around mucosal immunity against current and future VOC.**
33	Agreement	According to the article cited below, SSNHL has also been observed after vaccination with Oxford-AstraZeneca, as well as after older vaccines (influenza, tetanus and diphtheria, meningococcal polysaccharide, and rabies).  The mechanism is not known, but may be immune- or autoimmune-related.  [Sudden sensorineural hearing loss after COVID-19 vaccination](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1201971221008158)
399	Agreement	The CI surrounds 0, so it's likely just statistical noise bringing it down to 0.  It also seems to largely be ChAdOx1 dragging down the data set:  > The vaccine effectiveness of BNT162b2 was 92% (95% CI 92 to 93; p<0·001) at 15–30 days, 47% (39 to 55; p<0·001) at 121–180 days, and 23% (−2 to 41; p=0·07) from day 211 onwards. Waning was slightly slower for mRNA-1273, with a vaccine effectiveness of 96% (94 to 97; p<0·001) at 15–30 days and 59% (18 to 79; p=0·012) from day 181 onwards. Waning was also slightly slower for heterologous ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 plus mRNA vaccine schedules, with a vaccine effectiveness of 89% (79 to 94; p<0·001) at 15–30 days and 66% (41 to 80; p<0·001) from day 121 onwards. By contrast, vaccine effectiveness for homologous ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 was 68% (52 to 79; p<0·001) at 15–30 days, with no detectable effectiveness from day 121 onwards (−19% [95% CI –98 to 28]; p=0·49).
130	Neutral	It means that their elderly really need to drop their hesitancy and get the vaccine. They have a very big problem of vaccine hesitancy among their elderly (esp. 80+ age range), such that the chart of proportion vaccinated vs. age is opposite most other countries.
127	Agreement	It is in UK papers and they continue to study 2x AZ w/ BNT and M1273 boosters.
342	Agreement	Absence of evidence =/= evidence of absence.
442	Disagreement	Do we actually know if this viral load is show to be infectious? If it's just RNA fragments, it would not necessarily correlate to infectivity. Every study I have seen that tried to culture the viral load reported that it was significantly lower in the vaccinated, though the range vary study to study.
821	Agreement	Seeing as most vaccines (J&J excepted) were originally designed to be given as a prime + boost regimen, people who are vaccinated have been exposed to the spike protein twice (3x if boosted), and would be expected to have a stronger and more persistent response after the second exposure. Those who have had just a single infection and no vaccine have encountered sars-cov-2 antigens only once. Giving these people a vaccine now would act a bit like a heterologous boost after their priming by infection.  It would be interesting to see if people who have been infected twice have better immunity than those who have caught it just once. There are probably enough of these cases by now to be able to do the appropriate comparative studies (on TWiV Clinical Update recently, Dr Daniel Griffin commented on patients who have been infected four times by now!)
765	Agreement	Just a thought, could it be that with the covid pass in force, the vaccinated would have more social occasions to get infected?
81	Agreement	Exactly the point I was going to make. Luckily improved diet can also help with vaccine efficacy if we can improve weight, cholesterol and high blood pressure before vaccination  https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8487656/
788	Agreement	Not really. This state after three exposures is more like what you have against all flu lineages by the time you are 10 years old. A yearly sequence matched flu boost then turbocharges you for a little while.
954	Agreement	Yes, and according to this study you are about twice as likely to get it from the vaccine after first + second dose of biontech (3+12=15 per million) compared to covid(7 per million). So if you **only** cared about the myocarditis risk it would not make sense to get vaccinated as a young male.
154	Agreement	One of the statutory requirements for granting an EUA is:  > that there is no adequate, approved, and available alternative to the product for diagnosing, preventing, or treating such disease or condition;  https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/21/360bbb-3  With two FDA-approved vaccines for COVID available for adults, the bar to new EUA's is getting higher as the spaces where Pfizer & Moderna are not adequate & approved are small and shrinking.
507	Agreement	" CONCLUSIONS  The messenger RNA (mRNA) boosters were highly effective against symptomatic delta infection, but they were less effective against symptomatic omicron infection.    …   Discussion   BNT162b2 booster vaccination was associated with an 86.1% reduction in the incidence of symptomatic delta variant infection and a 49.4% reduction in the incidence of symptomatic omicron infection. With the mRNA-1273 booster, the reduction in the incidence of symptomatic infection with the omicron variant was similar at 47.3%.    "
490	Disagreement	This doesn't feel right to me. Even if Omicron replicates, a vaccine targeted to Omicron should work more effectively than one that basically doesn't target it at all.  And if it replicates so quickly that it overwhelms the vaccine initially, wouldn't you expect the virus to be more deadly since the viral load is higher? Omicron, even for unvaccinated people, is significantly less deadly, however still deadly to many.
943	Agreement	Wouldn't this imply that locking the vaccinated down (or at least closing the bars etc) would have a huge impact on the new case rate?
383	Agreement	Infection naïve population? I would have said the south of the south island of New Zealand. But omicron will be there in a couple of days to weeks as it's already in country. Also hard to find vaccine naïve and uninfected.
431	Disagreement	>no health authorities and almost no "experts" wanted to touch that study with a 10 foot pole.  Eh?  27 studies have cited it in the five months since it was published, and most of those were in high-profile journals (NEJM, The Lancet, JAMA, etc.).  That's not a very compelling example of avoidance.   https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa2114114#article_citing_articles
607	Agreement	Ah perfect- thank you.
465	Disagreement	Longer than the USA recommended time? Or longer than the schedules that were recommending 2-3 months between first and second doses?
345	Agreement	Are there vaccines in development that target a more stable part of the virus rather than the spike protein?
852	Agreement	Thankyou for the broadening vs narrowing analogy.  I wouldn't say I feared it to be the other way, so much as was curious about the interactions between an aging vaccine and a relatively mutated variant.  I imagine it gets more complicated because OAS wouldn't really exist if that was always the case though?  I assumed the boosters were effective because they brute forced sterilization with sheer magnitude of numbers from an even stronger immune response, while the antibodies generated at an individual level remained less effective.
764	Agreement	Just a quick correction: the lower bound on the 95% CI for mRNA1273 against Omicron is -69.9, not positive 69.9. I was wondering how the estimate could be outside of the CI range - looks like a typo.
463	Disagreement	It's not defined and it's not even a study. It's not peer reviewed, not even published in a journal, it's published on some blog only. Nothing in it can be confirmed or even evaluated. Total garbage.
503	Disagreement	Why is this being downvoted?? I've been wondering the same thing
162	Agreement	press release text (sans footer)  > The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has been notified by Pfizer that new data have recently emerged regarding its emergency use authorization request for the use of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine in children 6 months through 4 years of age. As part of its rolling submission, the company recently notified the agency of additional findings from its ongoing clinical trial. Based on the agency’s preliminary assessment, and to allow more time to evaluate additional data, we believe additional information regarding the ongoing evaluation of a third dose should be considered as part of our decision-making for potential authorization.  >  > Therefore, the FDA is postponing the Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee meeting originally scheduled for Feb. 15. This will give the agency time to consider the additional data, allowing for a transparent public discussion as part of our usual scientific and regulatory processes for COVID-19 vaccines. We will provide an update on timing for the advisory committee meeting once we receive additional data on a third dose in this age group from the company’s ongoing clinical trial and have an opportunity to complete an updated evaluation.   >  > Since the early days of the pandemic, we have always followed the science in this ever-changing situation. Given the recent omicron surge and the notable increase in hospitalizations in the youngest children to their highest levels during the pandemic so far, we felt it was our responsibility as a public health agency to act with urgency and consider all available options, including requesting that the company provide us with initial data on two doses from its ongoing study. The goal was to understand if two doses would provide sufficient protection to move forward with authorizing the use of the vaccine in this age group. Our approach has always been to conduct a regulatory review that’s responsive to the urgent public health needs created by the pandemic, while adhering to our rigorous standards for safety and effectiveness. Being able to begin evaluating initial data has been useful in our review of these vaccines, but at this time, we believe additional information regarding the ongoing evaluation of a third dose should be considered. >  > The agency will ensure the data support effectiveness and safety before authorizing a COVID-19 vaccine for use in our youngest children. In the meantime, the best way to protect children, including when they are at school or daycare, is to practice social distancing and masking in accordance with public health recommendations, and for their family members and caregivers to get vaccinated or receive a booster dose when eligible.
542	Agreement	> https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.02.02.22270302v1  > Detectable Omicron-neutralizing activity was nearly absent after two vaccinations but elicited in 89% of individuals by the booster immunization. Neutralizing titers against the Wu01, Delta, and Omicron variants showed similar post-boost declines and 81% of individuals maintained detectable activity against Omicron.  Levels fall off ... but the sheer ability to neutralize a distant VoC is retained and can probably be recalled.
17	Agreement	> So by getting a huge boost of antibodies you would amplify also the ones that still work  That's not what this paper is reporting.  It doesn't contradict what you said - we *do* believe that amplifying your antibody levels means that whatever antibodies you had already that can still neutralize omicron would be present in greater numbers.  But this paper, among others, is reporting greater *breadth* of antibody coverage.  That is, you have antibodies against more variants, some of which don't exist yet, and that means a greater chance that you have antibodies that will work better with any particular variant that is different from the original.  See my other comment on this post for more:  https://www.reddit.com/r/COVID19/comments/s635r8/mrnabased_covid19_vaccine_boosters_induce/ht1t2f7/?context=1
550	Agreement	> Previous papers have similar positive spin narrative; general tenor in tension with findings from independent studies.  Can you post these independent studies? I am most interested in J&J efficacy against severe disease (without a booster) and against long COVID
999	Disagreement	To be honest, I think you are vastly overestimating how much thought people give to the topic.  Those people show up here.  The rest of the population just adopts the group consensus of their tribe and runs with it.
775	Agreement	Memory B cells and T cells to the rescue!
504	Disagreement	With the current increases in Europe and China, I don't think we can rule out a spike starting in April or May.
882	Agreement	There appears to be an improvement on the fomite transmission side of things per a Japanese study [https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.01.18.476607v1](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.01.18.476607v1)    That aspect has had me watching since the beginning. IF this thing evolves to substantively improve that form of transmission, all bets are off. CDC backgrounder on formite transmission [https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/more/science-and-research/surface-transmission.html](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/more/science-and-research/surface-transmission.html)  I'm thinking though that there is something else in play other than JUST survival times on various surfaces...
458	Disagreement	Is it that or simply that there are a lot more antibodies in general?
945	Agreement	Wouldn’t you have to control for the number of viral infections in each group and control for that ? You are basically comparing a group with more viral infections to a group with less.  Also the comparable groups would be vax+Covid positive and no vax+Covid positive or vaccine or no vaccine.   We are really not isolating either Covid infection or vax status and their relationship to GBS with this design.
626	Agreement	As well, how does this make the blanket approach the CDC took in recommending either m-RNA vaccine over J&J for all ages groups. A 28 year old male has probably less than a 1 in 1 million chance of developing a blood clot, and an even lower chance of dying. Even though most myocarditis cases typically resolve, this still shows that Moderna is likely as high or higher of a risk than J&J for this demographic.  Note: I don't think Moderna should be restricted in this group. My point here is to show that the blanket approach the CDC took doesn't make sense. Especially since, in the context of Omicron, the main advantage the m-RNA vaccines have (efficacy against infection) doesn't seem to be much of a factor anymore. Protection against severe disease is the equalizer now, and J&J has always held up very well comparatively.
309	Disagreement	So like, this is a really frustrating piece of information going around getting spun a certain way. What it says is: in monkeys, omicron-specific doses offered no additional protection over the OG mRNA vaccines *in immune-naive test subjects*.   This is getting reported as what you said: "the omicron dose doesn't offer any additional protection". But we already knew from both experimental and real-world data that 1 or 2 shots of OG mRNA didn't offer the highest level of protection against omicron, as well as that a 3rd dose of OG upped protection but not to the level of efficacy against OG covid.   So while this is important data for overall vaccine production and implementation, a big part of the purpose of developing an omicron-specific dose should be assessing whether an omicron booster 3rd (or 4th, or whatever) shot offers additional protection against omicron beyond a 3rd (etc) dose of OG formula for people that have already been vaccinated. This article *does not contain that information*, yet is being portrayed as though it does and as though it's clear evidence the development of an omicron-specific booster won't be successful.
848	Agreement	T cells store memory of the invading pathogen and the immune systems response to it. If you don't activate t cells you ain't trickin shyt.
428	Disagreement	>I do not think anybody had the idea that a hospitalized covid patient had less chance of developing myocarditis than somebody getting vaccinated.  I'm not so sure about that lol
264	Agreement	Wow didn’t realize how far along this was. This seems pretty promising. Would love to see a direct comparison of this to NovaVax; seems like it might push novavax right out of the way really.
364	Agreement	Given the sample size and spread, the authors are really reaching to draw a conclusion in a different response in breakthrough infections after 2 or 3 vaccine doses.   I personally would call them indistinguishable but warranting further study.
55	Agreement	Being 5-11 already does that
157	Agreement	only against infection. Not other relevant end points like long covid, hospitalization and death, which 2 shots still show protection against.
939	Agreement	Why? In the Norwegen case it was one infecting 80 at a party.
689	Agreement	I agree with you, however I'd like your perspective on the following:  The problem right now in Canada is that COVID is so prevalent, that hospitals dedicate a lot of resources to isolating infected hospitalized people whose issues have nothing to do with COVID.   It is not even clear if provincial governments know how many people are hospitalized with COVID as opposed to for COVID; that data has never been made public, at least not in Quebec and Ontario.  As long as COVID is treated like a dangerous disease, our healthcare will get overwhelmed every winter. But with Omicron being extremely dominant (no recent data about Delta prevalence here however) and the vast majority of the population vaccinated, and a significant percentage having had immunity from infections, it is unclear if this is a dangerous disease at all but it doesn't seem to be. If hospitals started treating COVID normally, hospitals wouldn't be overwhelmed. I think this is where we should be, but it will take a lot of time for hospital protocols to change, and large segments of the public is still highly scared of catching COVID. No governments here would make that decision now, but I hope it changes before the next autumn.
421	Agreement	Who *get* covid or who *test positive* for covid? Oh it's those who are *hospitalized* for covid? Which is a tiny fraction of a percent of those in this age range who get covid?
524	Neutral	**Abstract**   ____   **Objective:** To assess the short-term change of depressive and anxiety symptoms in relation to COVID-19 vaccination among Swedish adults.      **Design:** A prospective cohort study with monthly data collections on self-reported depressive and anxiety symptoms from December 2020 to October 2021 and COVID-19 vaccination from July to October 2021.      **Setting:** The Omtanke2020 Study, Sweden.      **Participants:** 7,925 participants of the Omtanke2020 study with complete data on depressive and anxiety symptoms and vaccination status.      **Intervention(s) or Exposure(s):** Receiving the first or second dose of a COVID-19 vaccine.      **Main outcomes(s) and Measure(s):** Binary measures of depression (PHQ-9, cut-off ≥ 10) and anxiety (GAD-7, cut-off ≥ 10) one month before the first dose, one month after the first dose, and, if applicable, one month after the second dose. For individuals not vaccinated or chose to not report vaccination status (unvaccinated individuals), we selected three monthly measures of PHQ-9 and GAD-7 with 2-month intervals in-between based on data availability. Results: 5,079 (64.1%) individuals received two doses of COVID-19 vaccine, 1,977 (24.9%) received one dose, 305 (3.9%) were not vaccinated, and 564 (7.1%) chose not to report vaccination status. There was a lower prevalence of depression and anxiety among vaccinated, compared with unvaccinated, individuals, especially after the second dose. Among individuals receiving two doses of vaccine, the prevalence of depression and anxiety was lower after both first (aRR=0.82, 95%CI 0.76-0.88 for depression; aRR=0.81, 95%CI 0.73-0.89 for anxiety) and second (aRR=0.79, 95%CI 0.73-0.85 for depression; aRR=0.73, 95%CI 0.66-0.81 for anxiety) dose, compared with before vaccination. Similar results were observed among individuals receiving only one dose (aRR=0.76, 95%CI 0.68-0.84 for depression; aRR=0.82, 95%CI 0.72-0.94 for anxiety, comparing after first dose to before vaccination). These results were independent of age, sex, recruitment type, body mass index, smoking, relationship status, history of psychiatric disorder, number of comorbidities, COVID-19 infection status, and seasonality.      **Conclusions:** We observed a positive short-term change in depressive and anxiety symptoms among adults receiving a COVID-19 vaccine in the current pandemic.
755	Agreement	It just takes longer for it to get to the lungs
398	Agreement	that is... disappointingly low? your risk is already relatively small so having it marginally improved over those that are unvaccinated makes me question if it's even worth all the billions spent and lockdowns forced
547	Agreement	> lockdown measures resulted in practically no benefit (in fact, arguably are detrimental overall), in other research on this subreddit.  Would you mind citing that? A quick search finds sources entirely to the contrary:  https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0236619  https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0048969720339528
887	Agreement	They could mention in the results the vaccine effectiveness is very much negative 91-150 days from vaccination both for moderna and pfizer.  VE is -76.5 for Pfizer at 91-150 days. This is extreme result.
723	Agreement	I’m aware of these two studies on Omicron (sub threads):  [reddit.com/r/COVID19/coronavirus_disease_2019_covid19_vaccine_boosting](https://www.reddit.com/r/COVID19/comments/sslf1a)  [reddit.com/r/COVID19/protection_against_the_omicron_variant_from](https://www.reddit.com/r/COVID19/comments/sophs7)  [reddit.com/r/COVID19/protection_afforded_by_prior_infection_against](https://www.reddit.com/r/COVID19/comments/rxni1d) (same study/dataset as second I believe)
487	Disagreement	These people are seriously uneducated fools you can't sway them
261	Agreement	Would love to know more info on this. My 5-yo is getting her second shot later today.
620	Agreement	Anyone happen to have a link to the study with information on how protective it is?
539	Agreement	> Could that lead to the body becoming more likely to produce universal, “common denominator” antibodies?  For exposure naive people, maybe -- but given the numbers that have been either infected or vaccinated by now it seems like most will already be locked into the imprinted response form their first exposure.
514	Agreement	(1) is especially interesting to me. Why do some vaccines offer a lifetime of sterilizing immunity but others don’t? And even without vaccines, you only get measles once but coronaviruses can return periodically.  Is it simply because coronaviruses replicate so fast that they get a foothold before your cellular immunity can respond?  I’ll use measles as an example again. Is it a slow one? Can it replicate in your sinuses or does it have to enter your system first?
533	Agreement	> 6 weeks after illness onset, with a lower prevalence among vaccinated participants (60.6%) compared with unvaccinated participants (60.6% vs. 79.1%; aRR 0.70, 95% CI 0.58-0.  Also remember that it's all conditional on infection so the breakthrough health care workers are the most severe slice of breakthrough infections because the asymptomatic (or very mildly symptomatic) individuals probably aren't being included in the study.
158	Agreement	Oof. #1 especially.  And #2.  And this is a serious question. Isn't this a small sample size? 41 samples from 33 convalesced patients. 28 samples from the vaccinated.
559	Agreement	> Wouldn’t you have to control for the number of viral infections in each group and control for that ?  Why? This study is looking at the relative rates of GBS in vaccinated vs infected unvaccinated, not relative rates after each infection.
506	Disagreement	Yeah if this gets rolled out now it’s either going to leave these people vulnerable again at the worst time (going into holiday/winter season) or necessitate a fifth dose then, and I think we’re really going to start seeing a big amount of diminishing returns in terms of participation with each round of shots so we need to be careful about that.
368	Agreement	I do not think anybody had the idea that a hospitalized covid patient had less chance of developing myocarditis than somebody getting vaccinated. It would be more interesting to check risks involved with further vaccination when a person is already immunized. Does a 3rd dose present better protection than having the chance of getting myocarditis? Do vaccines improve your defense more with prior infection against any kind of risks posed by vaccines?
948	Agreement	X out of 100 would be extremely common. Let's hope it's significantly better than that.
574	Agreement	>This study showed that the impact of vaccination on community    transmission of circulating variants of SARS-CoV-2 appeared to be not    significantly different from the impact among unvaccinated people.  I'm rather surprised at this interpretation of the [quoted paper](https://www.thelancet.com/journals/laninf/article/PIIS1473-3099(21)00648-4/fulltext).  From the text of the paper itself:  >Vaccination reduces the risk of delta variant infection and accelerates viral    clearance. Nonetheless, fully vaccinated individuals with breakthrough    infections have peak viral load similar to unvaccinated cases and can    efficiently transmit infection in household settings, including to fully    vaccinated contacts. Host–virus interactions early in infection may    shape the entire viral trajectory.  It quite clearly does not say what they are asserting.  Even if you examine it from the perspective of break through infection the earlier viral clearance you would expect to reduce overall transmission.
936	Agreement	Why just moderna, isn't Pfizer the same? Thanks
77	Agreement	Does this make it phase 1 or 2, a trial or how soon will it be phase 3 eua? This omnicrap has some long term effects I would really like to get rid of.
715	Agreement	I wonder what's the mechanism of long haul symptoms induced by vaccination in some individuals is in this case. Or long haulers that recover and get their symptoms back or worsened post vaccination. There needs to be more research into the underlying cause of these long term effects.
648	Agreement	Do you have links to similar comparative studies for other "ways to harm" us?
813	Agreement	Really would have loved to have seen questions about knowing someone who died from COVID, and if that impacted vaccine hesitancy.
724	Agreement	I’m going off memory here, so forgive me if I’m wrong but didn’t Pfizer have VE of 85% at 10 months post vaccination?
250	Agreement	What does it mean for vaccine effectiveness to drop *below* 0%??
21	Agreement	> We also know, though with less confidence, that after some time, memory B cells become dormant, and if you challenge the immune system with a similar antigen after that happens, it leads to recruiting more naive B cells into this same process.  Would exposure to the virus also be a challenge to the immune system? For instance, if someone with infection-acquired and/or boosted immunity was exposed to the antigen, would that be considered a challenge?
745	Agreement	Is it saying that? Maybe I am misinterpreting but I don't know if the abstract is in support of selection pressure from vaccines directly creating an environment for Omicron, just that omicron has some escape from vaccine-induced immunity right?
251	Neutral	What we also need is Paxlovid to be patent free and mass produced.
95	Agreement	How would they look for previous infection since Ab levels usually drop after a few months?
104	Agreement	I think we need to be thinking in terms of how long this immunity lasts. If it’s only strong for a month or two then that’s not going to do us all a lot of good.
343	Agreement	Although encouraging I think we should wait for data from independent researchers. The assay that sanofi used could be biased.
252	Agreement	When it says "exercise did no increase side effects after covid-19 vaccination" what side effects are they referring to? The general soreness after getting a vaccine or something else?
913	Agreement	Vaccination protected testicular damage after SARS-CoV-2 challenge  > Hamsters immunized with two doses of intramuscular inactivated whole virion vaccine 14  days apart [14] were intranasally challenged with 10^3 PFU of SARS-CoV-2 HK-13 14 days  after second vaccination. Testes were examined at 4 and 28dpi (Figure 10A). Serum  neutralizing antibodies were detected from all vaccinated animals after challenge at 4dpi and  28dpi, with GMT of 160±43.82 and 120±23.09, respectively. Testicles showed no  histopathological changes in all nine vaccinated hamsters (Figure 10B). One group of  hamsters (n=7) were challenged with 10^3 PFU at 3 days after first vaccination showed no  testicular histopathological damage at 4dpi (Figure 10B), indicating that vaccination  effectively protects testes from SARS-CoV-2.   And mild cases may be spared:  > No  detectable histopathological changes were observed at 4dpi after challenge with 10PFU or  10^2 PFU (Figure S1).  Edit: added ^
633	Agreement	Bharat Biotech is currently working on stage III trials of a nasal COVID-19 vaccine to be used as a booster shot.
192	Agreement	That doesn’t matter if you randomize correctly. The effect of previous infections will be similar in both cohorts.
671	Neutral	From their previous study:  Smith et al. Genome Medicine (2021) 13:101 Landscape and selection of vaccine epitopes in SARS-CoV-2 [https://doi.org/10.1186/s13073-021-00910-1](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13073-021-00910-1)  **Abstract** Background: Early in the pandemic, we designed a SARS-CoV-2 peptide vaccine containing epitope regions optimized for concurrent B cell, CD4 + T cell, and CD8 + T cell stimulation. The rationale for this design was to drive both humoral and cellular immunity with high specificity while avoiding undesired effects such as antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE).  Methods: We explored the set of computationally predicted SARS-CoV-2 HLA-I and HLA-II ligands, examining protein source, concurrent human/murine coverage, and population coverage. Beyond MHC affinity, T cell vaccine candidates were further refined by predicted immunogenicity, sequence conservation, source protein abundance, and coverage of high frequency HLA alleles. B cell epitope regions were chosen from linear epitope mapping studies of convalescent patient serum, followed by filtering for surface accessibility, sequence conservation, spatial localization near functional domains of the spike glycoprotein, and avoidance of glycosylation sites.  \[major histocompatibility complex, human leucocyte antigen\]
43	Agreement	Are betacoronaviruses less likely to diverge into subtypes than influenza?
980	Disagreement	I’m not sure I understand what this is trying to say in simpler language. It sounds to me like further boosters blunted the immune response in those with high immune function? I am not certain.
683	Agreement	https://coronavirus.health.ny.gov/covid-19-breakthrough-data  Not scientific compared to the Houston study but they have graphs showing what they consider vaccine efficacy at both infections and hospitalization  Not mobile friendly. and data is on a 2 week lag so not fully omicron cases yet
860	Agreement	The 3rd shot (booster) produced a more robust immune response than the 2nd in terms of neutralizing antibodies and also the ability to neutralize Omicron (which is much more mutated than the other Variants of Concern). The fourth shot, however, only seemed to restore anti-body levels to where they were after the 3rd shot - not greater than. They also found that a fourth shot seemed to shift the focus of the immune system on to other parts of the virus than the spike - which is not helpful. Their conclusion is that repeated boosting to keep immunity up is not a long term option.      They looked at a group of healthcare workers who only received shots of inactivated CoV-2 vaccines - not the mRNA type (Pfizer/Moderna). Unlike the inactivated kind, the mRNA vaccines only produces the spike, so it's unclear at this point if the immune response will shift away from the spike as it seems to be doing from their study w/ the inactivated vaccines (which include other parts of the virus).
988	Disagreement	No. Very very unlikely to happen. Furthermore, they immersed brain cells in the vaccine for 96hrs. Odd. What happens if you immerse brain cells in tap water for 96hrs? If anything the should have started with what the spike protein does to brain cells, or compare that at the same time. I read this over last night and was baffled.....
93	Agreement	How are they going to find 205 people who did not vaccinate already and are willing to participate in a clinical trial?
459	Disagreement	Isn't that just because Omicron has started running its course there? We need to be prepared for future variants but the omicron wave seems to mostly be over in USA.
92	Agreement	Hospitalizations are falling in South Africa. Hopefully the same thing happens in the US
934	Agreement	Why did they stop showing the incidence rate for 2 doses?
736	Agreement	In the Oslo study, none of the subjects had boosters.  Of those double vaccinated 54 of 66 were infected (81%). In the Faroe Is. study, all boostered, 21 of 33 infected (64%).  Oslo average age 35, Faroe, 45.
370	Agreement	I still think that we need to look at spacing the 1st and 2nd doses apart much further than they are currently, the 2nd shot (especially on the recommended schedule) may not actually do a great deal compared to having a booster shot months later.
253	Agreement	When they say third dose do they mean a booster dose or a regular dose?
204	Neutral	The inclusion criteria is "COVID-19 diagnosis", so it should be people who test positive for Covid.  I think the word "patient" is confusing a lot of people here. The paper said nothing about hospitalizations.
315	Disagreement	They also talk about pre-existing hypertrophy on one of the boys but don't specifically rule out HO Cm despite running  testing for genetic markers of arrhythmias.  Moreover- its a pair of potentially questionable case reports.  I dont see any smoking gun here.
611	Agreement	Also relevant is that myocarditis is not the only negative health outcome from a COVID-19. It's a pretty easy call to compare "low risk of myocarditis" and "very low risk of myocarditis". But comparing the other outcomes is important as well.
959	Agreement	You can't know things like that.  You have to have the actual people and actual time to study it.  Those are two things you can't hurry in a study.  Studies are nearly the only way we really know what we know, and even then, they need to reviewed by the scientific peers of the study organizers.  These things take *time* to know.
188	Agreement	Thanks I didn't understood this at the beginning
266	Agreement	Yeah, we actually saw this happen here in Ontario last month. The population-adjusted infection rates for fully vaccinated individuals actually *surpassed* the rates for the unvaccinated.   The most compelling theory I heard on why that was the case is that only vaccinated individuals could attend high-congregate settings like movie theatres, bars and sports games. So with Omicron, it ripped through those settings and meant that even after controlling for population, you still had more vaxxed getting infected.
365	Agreement	Hong Kong has the highest CFR in the world. I’m not sure what that means about the vaccine.
873	Agreement	The only way I could see this happening is because they feel more confident and are more willing to risk exposure with the feeling of confidence. That or they live in places with fewer restrictions because of higher vax rates and fewer restrictions, increasing possible exposures?
637	Agreement	Can someone help me understand what’s going on here. We are clearly seeing vaccine effectiveness decreasing over time… it’s in almost every study I’ve read.   > With 2 doses of Pfizer or Moderna effectiveness dropped from around 65 to 70% down to around 10% by 25 weeks after the second dose.   With 2 doses, the VE against omicron  is as low as 10% for Pfizer and Moderna, and **0% percent** for AstraZeneca…. The current boosters aren’t even omicron specific, they’re the exact same formula as the original vaccine developed for the wild COVID…. Why are we not expecting booster VE to diminish as well…? At this point 2-doses are basically irrelevant, even with delta at 20+ weeks they were less than 50% effective.. which begs the question, how was VE for the original Pfizer 10 month trials still so high??
221	Neutral	They matched based on age and location, but not comorbidities:  > Each individual was then matched (1:1) by Statistics Sweden, the national agency for statistics, to one randomly sampled individual from the total population of Sweden on birth year, sex, and municipality.  They then attempted to adjust for comorbidities using a Cox proportional hazards model for the analysis.
257	Agreement	Which one? AZ is close to useless against Omicron with protection even against hospitalisation and severe symptoms that drops off a cliff quickly. It is also expressly not recommended in many places for people under 30.  J&J has been pulled.  It's basically just Novovax and I don't know about that one.
115	Agreement	If you can extend that definition to “focusing on protecting against hospitalization even for the immunocompromised and against Long Covid” then I won’t care about infections either and would be on board.
467	Disagreement	N=2. Major finding? C’mon.
325	Disagreement	What exactly is this comparing? If I'm not mistaken vaccine myocarditis risk to hospitalised covid-19 patient myocarditis risk?
66	Agreement	Discussion from the actual report.  &#x200B;  The growth rates estimated for Omicron translate into doubling times of under 2.5 days, even allowing for the potentially slowing of growth up to 11 th December. These estimates are consistent or even faster than doubling times reported from South Africa (13). Assuming an exponentially distributed generation time of 5.2 days and that R=1 currently for Delta, reproduction number (R) estimates for Omicron are above 3 for the SGTF and genotype analyses, and above 2.5 even for the period 8th -10th December. Shorter assumed generation times will give lower R estimates. The distribution of Omicron by age, region and ethnicity currently differs markedly from Delta, indicating Omicron transmission is not yet uniformly distributed across the population. However, we note that given its immune evasion, the age distribution of Omicron infection in the coming weeks may continue to differ from that of Delta. London is substantially ahead of other English regions in Omicron frequency. We find strong evidence of immune evasion, both from natural infection, where the risk of reinfection is 5.41 (95% CI: 4.87-6.00) fold higher for Omicron than for Delta, and from vaccine-induced protection. Our VE estimates largely agree with those from UKHSA’s TNCC study (11) and predictions from predicting VE from neutralising antibody titres (4,14), suggesting very limited remaining protection against symptomatic infection afforded by two doses of AZ, low protection afforded by two doses of Pfizer, but moderate to high (55-80%) protection in people boosted with an mRNA vaccine. Our estimate of the hazard ratio for reinfection relative to Delta also supports previous analysis of reinfection risk in South Africa (15). Prior to Omicron, the SIREN cohort study of UK healthcare workers estimated that SARS-CoV-2 infection gave 85% protection against reinfection over 6 months (16), or a relative risk of infection of 0.15 compared with those with no prior infection. Our hazard ratio estimate would suggest the relative risk of reinfection has risen to 0.81 \[95%CI: 0.73-1.00\] (i.e. remaining protection of 19% \[95%CI: 0-27%\]) against Omicron. We find no evidence (for both risk of hospitalisation attendance and symptom status) of Omicron having different severity from Delta, though data on hospitalisations are still very limited. There are several limitations of this analysis. While case numbers are increasing quickly, there are still limits in our ability to examine interactions between the variables considered. The distribution of Omicron differed markedly from Delta across the English population at the time this analysis was conducted, likely due to the population groups in which it was initially seeded, which increases the risks of confounding in analyses. SGTF is an imperfect proxy for Omicron, though SGTF had over 60% specificity for Omicron over the date range analysed in the SGTF analysis (and close to 100% by 10th December). Intensified contact tracing around known Omicron cases may have increased case ascertainment over time, potentially introducing additional biases. Our analysis reinforces the still emerging but increasingly clear picture that Omicron poses an immediate and substantial threat to public health in England and more widely.
995	Disagreement	There may simply be a confounding factor in the study design. One has to remember that the groups are not random and not blinded.   For example (and this is pure speculation) it could be that personnel working in close contact with covid patients is more likely to want to have the second booster shot so they may be over-represented in the "2 booster shots group" and at the same time they might have a markedly increased risk of catching omicron. In such a scenario the second booster shot could theoretically even raise immunity but due to study design / confounders look as if it would make it more likely to get infected.   Another similar imaginable confounders could be that persons who have children may be more willing to get an extra booster thinking that they want to protect their families. At the same time those children could make it more likely that they catch omicron from their children.   I'm not saying that any of this is true or that it's more likely than the hypothesis that a second booster lowers immunity. But it is important to remember that correlations seen in unblinded non-random studies very often are not causations.
409	Agreement	Unfortunately they’re probably going to be crossed for a long time. I think the general consensus was well over a year from when they were talking about it in December, and perhaps significantly longer, and that’s assuming it does work as well as hoped. Unless someone comes along and “warp speeds” it, which we’ve seen no indication of occurring at this juncture.
321	Disagreement	This is the type of basic statistical analysis that is missing from many published studies. It worries me that peer review isn't catching such foundational aspects of probability.
401	Agreement	The results are really strange. The adeno vaccines have really higher neutralization titres vs the mRNA vaccines than most other studies. I find it very hard to believe that a single JJ dose will lead to higher neutralization titres vs the Pfizer vaccine in the over 56 year olds.  Having said that, if Sanofi had been a little bit more careful in 2020 then maybe one of the major vaccines of 2021 would have been theirs... What a pitty.
990	Disagreement	Seems like the title is a little misleading. Mixed cocktail seems to work great, specific omicron or delta RBD vaccine protocols didn't work as much.   Also a preprint, but I think given the title and abstract there is some misleading going on.
328	Disagreement	Without even looking at the study I was pretty sure that the sampling from vaccinated cohorts was going to be within 2 months of a second dose or a boost, before antibodies start to wane.   That is almost always the case with the studies that favor vaccination compared to natural immunity.  At this point we should be looking at a mixture of 2 months, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after second dose and boosters to more accurately represent the population.  This tells us nothing new really.  It's no different than the two months following someone recovering from Covid.
905	Agreement	This was before Omicron and some of Delta, so what are the numbers concerning the last two  dominant strains i wonder. Wait for the next study i guess.
11	Agreement	> Controlling for vaccine status, age, sex, ethnicity, asymptomatic status, region and specimen date, Omicron was associated with a 5.40 (95% CI: 4.38-6.63) fold higher risk of reinfection compared with Delta. To put this into context, in the pre-Omicron era, the UK “SIREN” study of COVID infection in healthcare workers estimated that prior infection afforded 85% protection against a second COVID infection over 6 months. The reinfection risk estimated in the current study suggests this protection has fallen to 19% (95%CI: 0-27%) against an Omicron infection.  > The study finds no evidence of Omicron having lower severity than Delta, judged by either the proportion of people testing positive who report symptoms, or by the proportion of cases seeking hospital care after infection.  > The researchers found a significantly increased risk of developing a symptomatic Omicron case compared to Delta for those who were two or more weeks past their second vaccine dose, and two or more weeks past their booster dose (for AstraZeneca and Pfizer vaccines).   > Depending on the estimates used for vaccine effectiveness against symptomatic infection from the Delta variant, this translates into vaccine effectiveness estimates against symptomatic Omicron infection of between 0% and 20% after two doses, and between 55% and 80% after a booster dose.
28	Agreement	0.327 relative risk versus 0.337 relative risk is 0.970 relative risk or 3% efficacy.  Math isn't a magic trick.  You can learn this stuff.
598	Neutral	Abstract  The SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant of concern comprises three sublineages designated BA.1, BA.2, and BA.3, with BA.2 steadily replacing the globally dominant BA.1. We show that the large number of BA.1 and BA.2 spike mutations severely dampen plasma neutralizing activity elicited by infection or seven clinical vaccines, with cross-neutralization of BA.2 being consistently more potent than that of BA.1, independent of the vaccine platform and number of doses. Although mRNA vaccines induced the greatest magnitude of Omicron BA.1 and BA.2 plasma neutralizing activity, administration of a booster based on the Wuhan-Hu-1 spike sequence markedly increased neutralizing antibody titers and breadth against BA.1 and BA.2 across all vaccines evaluated. Our data suggest that although BA.1 and BA.2 evade polyclonal neutralizing antibody responses, current vaccine boosting regimens may provide sufficient protection against Omicron-induced disease.
964	Disagreement	"In this study we vaccinated BALB/c mice with peptides derived from the SARS-CoV-2 proteome designed to either elicit T-cell responses or B-cell responses against linear epitopes."  I'm a bit confused by this part, how can you design an antigen to either elicit T or B cells response? Wouldn't the immune system automatically generate both?
213	Neutral	The worst part of the whole “myocarditis and vaccine” analysis is that even the worst myocarditis post vaccination was pretty small.   This study notes that the worst possible statistic around developing myocarditis after vaccine is 8.6 out of 100,000 or 0.0086% of developing it   Keep in mind, in previous studies, they note most who develop it, the treatment is to wait for hour or so and it goes away.   Keep in mind, this is the worst outcome of the vaccine for the “myocarditis” folks.   It never was a huge issue and this is just a continuation of what we know.   Covid is worse than normal operations for your body. The side effects are minimal.   And frankly, most of our society didn’t make pst high school statistics
931	Agreement	While I agree with your statement, the sample size is rather small. Hospitalization rates aren't very high for COVID-19 and there seem to be indications that the omicron strain is less likely to lead to hospitalization.
323	Disagreement	Vaccine boosters must be timed with the expected coronavirus season. The idea is that the maximum amount of people have the maximum amount of antibodies in the blood stream at the same time as the peak of the COVID 19 season.
489	Disagreement	They tried to make the vaccine with focusing on the variants, it didn't make much of a difference according to the study. It's on this subreddit.
757	Agreement	It's been widely reported that immunity conferred through omicron infection is backwards compatible (most apt term I could come up with). I don't know how robust those findings are, but I also haven't heard any opposing viewpoints. It may well be moot now that Omicron displaced Delta anyway.
618	Agreement	Any data on the original vaccination?
772	Agreement	Looks like it’s all just in animal models so far? But I like the concept and it sounds promising.
556	Agreement	> We have seen how much the protection from severe disease drops with the single doseJJ vaccine  Have we? I recall seeing studies during the fall that showed people vaccinated early spring 2021 still had strong protection against hospitalization with Delta, although I cannot recall the exact title of these papers at the moment.  Recently, it was shown that one dose of J&J offered basically zero protection against *symptomatic* Omicron but I don’t recall seeing numbers on hospitalization
753	Agreement	It has to burn through most or all of the non-immune people first before becoming endemic. That should (will) take longer since previous infection and/or vaccination is not completely protective against these circulating variants. No one knows how many other variants will emerge, either.
446	Disagreement	Haven't the Omicron specific vaccines been fairing fairly equally to the original vaccines so far?
106	Neutral	I wish they had broken down the risk of myocarditis in COVID-19 infected individuals by the same age groups they did in figure 2.
711	Agreement	I was going to say, the fact that delta positivity was only reduced by 45-50% with two doses seemed surprising to me, since I remember seeing figures (before boosters were widely available) of 70-75% effectiveness against delta. It makes more sense if this particular study is biased towards people with symptoms/access to testing
248	Agreement	We've seen time-lag effects in hospitalization & death statistics in so many different cases that I won't be comfortable with any characterization of SA's data until weeks after their testing peak, if testing even scales.
976	Disagreement	I cannot find this quote in the paper.
733	Agreement	In addition to the usual efficacy data, this report contains 17 pages on vaccination and pregnancy.  There's good charts and tables on birthweight and stillbirths.
119	Agreement	Is there any data or any studies in progress on this as a booster or otherwise mixed with the other vax flavors?  This looked really promising (and attractive for many people) a year ago. It's a shame it's taken this long.
166	Agreement	Protection from infection dropping to about zero around that point, and undetected infection in the unvaccinated group setting true (not the graphed, apparent) baseline slightly above zero, most likely. It was seen in some other VE estimates and centers around specific waves timing with studies like this.  This design is only looking at SARS2 infection outcomes. Once you control for healthcare seeking behavior, as with a test negative design, you wouldn't see this.
965	Disagreement	> Their conclusion is that repeated boosting to keep immunity up is not a long term option.  is there going to be any research into boosting with a different variant vaccine and whether that'll restore its "usefulness"? I can understand how boosting 4 shots with the exact same thing probably will not be useful.
246	Neutral	We know that partial/2-dose vaccination, particularly when separated by only a month as the CDC has insisted on until recently, does not prevent Omicron infection.  The smaller dose would also have a strong impact on hitting the specific extremely high cutoff needed for original-targeted antibodies to reasonably prevent Omicron infection.  In short, this is not news.  Antigen-presenting cells will still teach T and B cells how to fight off Covid, and will begin affinity maturation to scale up Omicron- or future-variant specific protection when (if, I guess) the boost dose is given.  In prime-boost vaccination the prime boost is often so small that it doesn't trigger enough response to prevent infection until the boost dose is given.  This is the same across many, many diseases.  One might question the usefulness of the second dose, since it theoretically does not contribute much to affinity maturation.
760	Agreement	It's important to note, however, that the booster is the same thing as the original vaccine in composition and dosage. It's just a second dosage, identical to the first.  This is true of Pfizer booster as well. Moderna is the same composition, but a half dosage
998	Disagreement	This article assumes that the public reaction to vaccination will played out as individual interactions on facebook, with no incoming information from the real world. I think that if in a year from now covid is comparable with the flu, and we have perhaps a vaccination a year for vulnerable groups, and no or very few restrictions, then people will notice that the vast bulk of the vaccinated had only mild side effects, and we have beaten this thing, and vaccination will be more accepted, not less. If a year from now we still have lockdowns and we have vaccinations every four months required by government edict then this will be a hard sell and we will have lots of stories of people who say they were forced to accept a vaccination that harmed them.  I think the question of how far real news filters slowly through facebook and how far facebook opinions are only driven by the dynamics of short term individual interactions is important to understand how damaging facebook is. I don't think this question is answered by how well you can model the impact of those interactions.
609	Agreement	Also *extremely* interested in whether this would be a probably with repeated mRNA boosting as well, as they deliver only spike and not the whole inactivated virus. Obviously, 4th, 5th, 6th mRNA boostings aren’t going to bring antibodies beyond where the 3rd dose got them, but would there be any active harm to immunity?
823	Agreement	Shorter length of hospitalization or no hospitalization?
